<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160205_10-K_edgar_data_815556_0000815556-16-000087_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>11646597</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>249649</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>4600196</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2903853</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2672184</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1039072</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>80</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000815556-16-000087.hdr.sgml : 20160205
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160205095857
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000815556-16-000087
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		95
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160205
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160205

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FASTENAL CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000815556
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-BUILDING MATERIALS, HARDWARE, GARDEN SUPPLY [5200]
		IRS NUMBER:				410948415
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-16125
		FILM NUMBER:		161390416

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2001 THEURER BLVD
		CITY:			WINONA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55987
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5074545374

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2001 THEURER BLVD
		CITY:			WINONA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55987

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000815556-16-000087.txt : 20160205

10-K
 1
 fast1231201510-k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
  ____________________________________________________________  
  FORM 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

or 
                 o 
    Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
        
    For the transition period from                 to                

Commission file number 0-16125 
  ____________________________________________________________   
  
  FASTENAL COMPANY 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
   
 (507) 454-5374 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                 Title of Each Class 
    Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 
      Common Stock, par value $.01 per share 
    The NASDAQ Stock Market 
   
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  None 
  ____________________________________________________________   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act    Yes    x      No    o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act     Yes    o      No    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes    x      No    o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).   Yes    x      No    o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer , and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
                        Large Accelerated Filer 
    x 
    Accelerated Filer 
    o 

Non-accelerated Filer 
    o    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
    Smaller Reporting Company 
    o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange              Act).  Yes    o      No    x 
  The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30,   2015  , the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was   $12,195,658,299  , based on the closing sale price of the Common Stock on that date. For purposes of determining this number, all executive officers and directors of the registrant as of June 30,   2015   are considered to be affiliates of the registrant. This number is provided only for the purposes of this report on Form 10-K and does not represent an admission by either the registrant or any such person as to the status of such person. 
  As of   January 22, 2016  , the registrant had   288,403,782   shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding. 

Table of Contents  

   FASTENAL COMPANY 
  ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

PART I  
      
      Item 1. 
      
     Business  
    3 
      Item 1A. 
      
     Risk Factors  
    10 
      Item 1B. 
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    15 
      Item 2. 
      
     Properties  
    15 
      Item 3. 
      
     Legal Proceedings  
    16 
      Item 4. 
      
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    16 
      Item X. 
      
     Executive Officers of the Registrant  
    17 

PART II  
      
      Item 5. 
      
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    19 
      Item 6. 
      
     Selected Financial Data  
    20 
      Item 7. 
      
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    21 
      Item 7A. 
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks  
    39 
      Item 8. 
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    40 
      Item 9. 
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    58 
      Item 9A. 
      
     Controls and Procedures  
    58 
      Item 9B. 
      
     Other Information  
    59 

PART III  
      
      Item 10. 
      
     Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance  
    60 
      Item 11. 
      
     Executive Compensation  
    60 
      Item 12. 
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    60 
      Item 13. 
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    60 
      Item 14. 
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    60 

PART IV  
      
      Item 15. 
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    61 

Signatures  
    63 

Index to Exhibits  
    64 

Table of Contents  

   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of our Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held Tuesday,   April 19, 2016   ( Proxy Statement ) are incorporated by reference in Part III. Portions of our   2015   Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part II. 
  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K, or in other reports of the Company and other written and oral statements made from time to time by the Company, do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. As such, they are considered 'forward-looking statements' that provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as anticipate, believe, should, estimate, expect, intend, may, will, plan, goal, project, hope, trend, target, opportunity, and similar words or expressions, or by references to typical outcomes. Any statement that is not a purely historical fact, including estimates, projections, trends, and the outcome of events that have not yet occurred, is a forward-looking statement. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our expectations regarding the business environment in which we operate, our projections of future performance, our perceived marketplace opportunities, and our strategies, goals, mission, and vision. You should understand that forward-looking statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, and may be affected by inaccurate assumptions. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, economic downturns, weakness in the manufacturing or commercial construction industries, competitive pressure on selling prices, changes in our current mix of products, customers or geographic locations, changes in our average store size, changes in our purchasing patterns, changes in customer needs, changes in fuel or commodity prices, inclement weather, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, difficulty in adapting our business model to different foreign business environments, weak acceptance or adoption of vending technology or increased competition in industrial vending, difficulty in maintaining installation quality as our industrial vending business expands, difficulty in hiring, relocating, training or retaining qualified personnel, failure to accurately predict the number of North American markets able to support stores or to meet store opening goals, difficulty in controlling operating expenses, difficulty in collecting receivables or accurately predicting future inventory needs, dramatic changes in sales trends, changes in supplier production lead times, changes in our cash position or our need to make capital expenditures, credit market volatility, changes in tax law, changes in the availability or price of commercial real estate, changes in the nature, price or availability of distribution, supply chain, or other technology (including software licensed from third parties) and services related to that technology, cyber-security incidents, potential liability and reputational damage that can arise if our products are defective, and other risks and uncertainties detailed in this Form 10-K under the heading 'Item 1A. Risk Factors'. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any such statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. 
    
    1 

       Table of Contents  

   PRESENTATION OF DOLLAR AMOUNTS 
  All dollar amounts in this Form 10-K are presented in thousands, except for share and per share information or unless otherwise noted. 
  STOCK SPLIT 
  All information contained in this Form 10-K reflects the two-for-one stock split in 2011. 
    2 

       Table of Contents  

   PART I 
    
             ITEM 1. 
    BUSINESS 
     Note   Information in this section is as of year end unless otherwise noted. The year end is typically December 31,   2015   unless additional years are included or noted. 
  Fastenal Company (together with our subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as Fastenal or the Company or by terms such as we, our, or us) began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. We have   2,622   store locations. The various geographic areas in which we operate these store locations are summarized later in this document. 
  We employ   20,746   people. We characterize these personnel as follows: 

We sell industrial and construction supplies to end-users (typically business-to-business), and also have some 'walk-in' retail business. These industrial and construction supplies are grouped into twelve product lines described later in this document. 
  We operate 14 distribution centers in North America from which we distribute products to our store and Onsite locations. Eleven of these are in the United States, two are in Canada, and one is in Mexico. 
  Our Internet address for corporate and investor information is   www.fastenal.com  . The information contained on this website or connected to this website is not incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. 
  Development of the Business 
  We began in 1967 with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers in small, medium-sized, and, in subsequent years, large cities. We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer our customers a full line of products at convenient locations and to the high quality of our employees. 
  We opened our first store in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population today of approximately 27,000. The following table shows our consolidated net sales for each fiscal year during the last ten years and the number of our store locations at the end of each of the last ten years: 

3 

     Table of Contents  

   We operated the following number of store locations: 

We select new locations for our stores based on their proximity to our distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for manufacturing and construction. In 2015, 2014, and 2013, we opened new stores at a rate of approximately 2%, 1%, and 2%, respectively. We also closed or consolidated certain stores in 2015, 2014, and 2013, which resulted in a net decrease in store locations in the last two years. We expect to open 60 to 75 stores in   2016  , which is an annual rate of 2% to 3%, and to continue to close or consolidate stores as the need arises. 
  We stock all new stores with inventory drawn from all of our product lines. Subsequent to a new opening, district and store personnel may supplement the inventory offering to customize the selection to the needs of our local customer base. 
  We currently have several versions of selling locations. The first type of selling location   a Fastenal store location   is either (1) a  traditional  store, which services a wide variety of customers and stocks a wide selection of the products we offer or (2) an  overseas  store, which focuses on manufacturing customers and on the fastener product line (this is the type of store format we typically have outside the United States and Canada). 
  In addition to the Fastenal store type discussed above, we also operate strategic account stores, strategic account sites, and Onsite locations. A strategic account store is a unique location that sells to multiple large customers in a market. Because this location sells to multiple customers, it is included in our store count. A strategic account site is essentially the same, but it typically operates out of an existing store location, rather than a unique location; therefore it is not included in our store count. An Onsite location is a selling unit located in or near a customer s facility that sells product solely to that customer. Onsite locations are not included in our store count numbers as they represent a customer subset of an existing store. 
  We currently believe, based on the demographics of the marketplace in North America, there is sufficient potential in this geographic area to support at least 3,500 total stores. Many of the new store locations may be in cities in which we currently operate. While we believe there is sufficient potential in North America for 3,500 total stores, or approximately 900 more than today, we have slowed our store openings in recent years and instead have increased our investments in other growth drivers such as people (both inside and outside our stores), industrial vending, and end-market growth investments. This allows us to maintain an aggressive offense where competitors are investing for growth, and to maintain a steady offense where competitors aren't investing - namely store openings. Fastenal has not operated outside of North America long enough to assess the market potential of those markets. 
    4 

     Table of Contents  

   We opened the following stores in the last five years: 

We plan to open additional stores outside of the United States in the future. The stores located outside the United States contributed approximately 11% of our consolidated net sales in   2015  , with approximately 52% of this amount attributable to our Canadian operations. 
  No assurance can be given that any of the expansion plans described above will be achieved, or that new store locations, once opened, will be profitable. 
  It has been our experience that near-term profitability has been adversely affected by the opening of new store locations. This adverse effect is due to the start-up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store generates its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it typically requires at least ten to twelve months for a new store to achieve its first profitable month. Of the two stores opened in the first quarter of   2015  , one was profitable in the fourth quarter of   2015  . 
    5 

     Table of Contents  

   The data in the following table shows the change in the average sales of our stores from   2014   to   2015   based on the age of each store. The stores opened in   2015   contributed approximately $8,745 (or approximately 0.2%) of our consolidated net sales in   2015  , with the remainder coming from stores opened prior to   2015   or from our non-store business. 

(1)    We closed 50 stores and 73 stores in   2015   and   2014  , respectively. The number of closed stores is noted in the table above as   2015   number/  2014   number.  
   (2)    We converted six store locations to non-store selling locations in   2015  . We converted two store locations to non-store selling    locations, and one non-store selling location to a store in   2014  . The number of converted stores is noted in the table above as   2015   number/  2014   number, with store locations converted to non-store locations shown as negative numbers.  
            (3)   
    Included in the average monthly sales amounts are sales from our non-store selling locations, such as our Holo-Krome         business (included in the 2009 group, the year it was acquired).  
      (4)    The average sales include sales of stores open for less than the full fiscal year. 
  Several years ago, we introduced our industrial vending offering and it has been an expanding component of our business. We believe industrial vending is the next logical chapter in the Fastenal story and also believe it has the potential to be transformative to industrial distribution, both because of its benefits to our customers such as reduced consumption, reduced purchase orders, reduced product handling, and 24-hour product availability, and its benefits to us in that it allows us to strengthen our relationships with our customers and streamline the supply chain. We believe we have a 'first mover' advantage in industrial vending and are investing to maximize this advantage.  
  We operate eleven regional distribution centers in the United States   Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, and Kansas, and three outside the United States   Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo Leon, Mexico. These 14 distribution centers give us approximately 3.4 million square feet of distribution capacity. These distribution centers are located so as to permit twice-a-week to five times-a-week deliveries to our stores using our trucks and overnight delivery by surface common carrier. As the number of stores increases, we intend to add new distribution centers. The distribution centers in Indiana and California also serve as a 'master' hub to support the needs of the stores in their geographic region as well as provide a broader selection of products for the stores serviced by the other distribution centers. 
  We currently operate our Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, California, and Ontario, Canada distribution centers with 'automated storage and retrieval systems' or ASRS. These eight distribution centers operate with greater speed and efficiency, and currently handle approximately 81% of our picking activity. The Indiana facility also contains our centralized replenishment facility for a portion of our industrial vending business. This operation is also highly automated. Construction of an ASRS has begun at our North Carolina distribution center, and we intend to invest in this type of ASRS distribution infrastructure over the next several years at our Washington and Kansas distribution centers. 
  Our information systems department develops, implements, and maintains the computer based technology used to support business functions within Fastenal. Corporate, e-business, and distribution center systems are primarily supported from central locations, while each store uses a locally installed Point-Of-Sale (POS) system. The systems consist of both customized and purchased software. A dedicated Wide Area Network (WAN) is used to provide connectivity between systems and authorized users. 
    6 

     Table of Contents  

   Trademarks and Service Marks 
  We conduct business under various trademarks and service marks, and we utilize a variety of designs and tag lines in connection with each of these marks, including   First In Fasteners    .    Although we do not believe our operations are substantially dependent upon any of our trademarks or service marks, we consider the  Fastenal  name and our other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to our business. 
  Products 
  Our original product offerings were fasteners and other industrial and construction supplies, many of which are sold under the Fastenal        product name. This product line, which we refer to as the fastener product line, consists of two broad categories: threaded fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers; and miscellaneous supplies and hardware, such as various pins and machinery keys, concrete anchors, metal framing systems, wire rope, strut, rivets, and related accessories. 
  Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects, and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Many aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities. Variations from city to city that do exist typically relate to the types of businesses operating in a market or to the environmental conditions in a market. Therefore, we open each store with a broad selection of base stocks of inventory and then encourage the local store and district leaders to tailor the additional inventory to the local market demand as it develops. 
  Threaded fasteners accounted for approximately 90% of the fastener product line sales in   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   and approximately 34%, 36%, and 38% of our consolidated net sales in   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. 
  Since 1993, we have added additional product lines. These product lines are sold through the same distribution channel as the original fastener product line, and more recently portions of our non-fastener product lines are also sold through industrial vending devices. 
  Detailed information about our sales by product line is provided later in this document in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Each product line may contain multiple product categories. During the last several years, we have added 'private label' brands (we often refer to these as 'Fastenal brands') to our offering. These 'private label' brands represented approximately 12% of our total net sales in   2015  . Most of these 'private label' products are in the non-fastener product lines. 
  We plan to continue to add other products in the future. 
  Inventory Control 
  Our inventory stocking levels are determined using our computer systems, our sales personnel at the store, district, and region levels, and our product managers. The data used for this determination is derived from sales activity from all of our stores, from individual stores, and from different geographic areas. It is also derived from vendor information and from customer demographic information. The computer system monitors the inventory level for all stock items and triggers replenishment, or prompts a buyer to purchase, as necessary, based on an established minimum-maximum level. All stores stock a base inventory and may expand beyond preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by the district and store personnel. Inventories in distribution centers are established from computerized data for the stores served by the respective centers. Inventory quantities are continuously re-balanced utilizing an automated transfer mechanism we call  inventory re-distribution . 
  Manufacturing and Support Services Operations 
  In   2015  , approximately 95% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards or to customer specific requirements. The remaining 5% related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by our manufacturing businesses or our support services. The manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners made to customers  specifications or standard sizes manufactured under our Holo-Krome        and Cardinal Fasteners        product lines. The services provided by the support services group include, but are not limited to, items such as tool repair, band saw blade welding, and light manufacturing. We engage in these activities primarily as a service to our customers and expect these activities in the future to continue to contribute in the range of 4% to 6% of our consolidated net sales. 
    7 

     Table of Contents  

   Sources of Supply 
  We use a large number of suppliers for the standard stock items we distribute. Most items distributed by our network can be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than 5% of our inventory purchases in   2015  . 
  Beyond inventory, we have some concentration of purchasing activity. For example, we utilize a limited number of suppliers for distribution equipment, two main suppliers for our vehicle fleet, and primarily one supplier for our industrial vending equipment. However, we believe there are viable alternatives to each of these, if necessary. 
  Geographic Information 
  Information regarding our revenues and long-lived assets by geographic location is set forth in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices, as well as sales at our foreign locations, could be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in trade relations, or fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies. 
  Customers and Marketing 
  We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer customers a full line of quality products at convenient locations, and to the superior service orientation and expertise of our employees. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment manufacturers and maintenance, repair, and operations. The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration, production, and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. During the fourth quarter of   2015  , our total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 394,000, while our total 'core accounts' (defined as the average number of accounts each month with purchase activity of at least $250 per month) was approximately 100,000. 
  In   2015  , no one customer accounted for more than 5% of our sales. We believe that our large number of customers, together with the varied markets that they represent, provide some protection to us from economic downturns that are not across multiple industries and geographic regions. However, slumps in one industry served by us can rapidly spread to other interrelated industries, which can mute the benefit of this protection. Examples include the collapse of oil and other commodity prices, which has had a detrimental impact not only on customers in the oil and gas, agriculture, and mining industries, but also other industries, such as heavy equipment manufacturers, servicing these customers. This impact is compounded if it is a global rather than a regional issue. 
  Direct marketing continues to be the backbone of our business through our local storefronts and selling personnel. We support our stores with multi-channel marketing including email and online marketing, print and radio advertising, catalogs, promotional flyers, events, and store signage. In recent years, our national advertising has been focused on NASCAR        sponsorships through our partnership with Roush Fenway Racing       . In 2015, we presented the Fastenal        brand to millions of Sprint Cup fans as the primary sponsor of Ricky Stenhouse Jr. s No. 17 car.  
  Seasonality 
  Seasonality has some impact on our sales. During the winter months, our sales to customers in the non-residential construction market typically slow due to inclement weather. Also, sales to our industrial production customers may decrease during the Fourth of July holiday period, the Thanksgiving holiday period (October in Canada and November in the United States), and the Christmas and New Year holiday period, due to plant shut-downs. 
  Competition 
  Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include large distributors located primarily in large cities, smaller distributors located in many of the same smaller markets in which we have stores, and on-line retailers. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products are customer service, price, convenience, product availability, and cost saving solutions. 
  Some competitors use vans to sell their products in markets away from their main warehouses, while others rely on mail order, websites, or telemarketing sales. We, however, believe the convenience provided to customers by operating stores in small, medium, and large markets, each offering a wide variety of products, is a competitive selling advantage and the convenience of a large number of stores in a given area, taken together with our ability to provide frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution centers, facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of products. We also believe our industrial vending, combined with our local storefront, provides a unique way to provide to our customers convenient access to products  
    8 

     Table of Contents  

   and cost saving solutions using a business model not easily replicated by our competitors. Having trained personnel at each store also enhances our ability to compete (see  Employees  below). 
  Our Onsite service model provides a strategic advantage with our larger customers. Building on our core business strategy of the local store, the Onsite model provides customer value through a customized service model while giving us a stronger competitive advantage and customer relationship, all with a relatively low investment given the existing store and distribution structure. 
  Employees 
  We employ a total of   20,746   full and part-time employees, most of whom are employed at a store location. A breakout of the number of employees, and their respective roles, is contained earlier in this document. 
  We believe the quality of our employees is critical to our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to our ability to open new stores in new markets. We foster the growth and education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training programs and by decentralizing decision-making. Wherever possible, our goal is to  promote from within . For example, most new store managers are promoted from an outside sales position and district managers (who supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers. 
  The Fastenal School of Business (our internal corporate university program) develops and delivers a comprehensive array of industry and company-specific education and training programs that are offered to our employees. Our school of business provides core curricula focused on key competencies determined to be critical to the success of our employees  performance. In addition, we provide specialized educational tracks within various institutes of learning. These institutes of learning are advanced levels that provide specific concentrations of education and development and have been designed to focus on critical aspects of our business, such as leadership, effective store best practices, sales and marketing, product education, and distribution. 
  Our sales personnel are compensated with a base salary and an incentive bonus arrangement that places emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store, district, and regional basis, while still attaining targeted levels of, among other things, gross profit and trade accounts receivable collections. As a result, a significant portion of our total employment cost varies with sales volume. We also pay incentive bonuses to our leadership personnel based on one or more of the following factors: sales growth, earnings growth (before and after taxes), profitability, and return on assets, and to our other personnel for achieving pre-determined departmental, project, and cost containment goals. 
  None of our employees is subject to a collective bargaining agreement and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are good. 
  Available Information 
  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our website at   www.fastenal.com   as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. 
    
    9 

       Table of Contents  

            ITEM 1A. 
    RISK FACTORS 
     In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The most significant risks and uncertainties known to us which may cause the operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect our operating results and profitability are as follows: 
  Company Risks 
  Products that we sell may expose us to potential material liability for property damage, environmental damage, personal injury, or death linked to the use of those products by our customers.   Some of our customers operate in challenging industries where there is a material risk of catastrophic events, and we are actively seeking to expand our sales to certain categories of customers (such as those in the aerospace industry) whose businesses entail heightened levels of that type of risk. If any of these events are linked to the use by our customers of any of our products, claims could be brought against us by those customers, by governmental authorities, and by third parties who are injured or damaged as a result of such events. In addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. While we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of this risk and may have recourse against our suppliers for losses arising out of defects in products procured from them, we could experience significant losses as a result of claims made against us to the extent adequate insurance is not in place, the products are manufactured by us or legal recourse against our suppliers is otherwise not available, or our insurers or suppliers are unwilling or unable to satisfy their obligations to us. 
  Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues.   The proper functioning of our information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although our information systems are protected with robust backup systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures, and other problems. In addition, certain software used by us is licensed from, and certain services related to our information systems are provided by, third parties who could choose to discontinue their relationship with us. If critical information systems fail or these systems or related software or services are otherwise unavailable, our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses, and maintain the security of Company and customer data could be adversely affected. Disruptions or failures of, or security breaches with respect to, our information technology infrastructure could have a negative impact on our operations. 
  In the event of a cyber security incident, we could experience certain operational problems or interruptions, incur substantial additional costs, or become subject to legal or regulatory proceedings, any of which could lead to damage to our reputation in the marketplace. In addition, compliance with cyber security laws, regulations, and standards could be difficult and costly, and failure to comply could expose us to legal risk.     The nature of our business requires us to receive, retain, and transmit certain personally identifying information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. While we have taken and continue to undertake significant steps to protect our customer and confidential information and the functioning of our computer systems and website, a compromise of our data security systems or those of businesses we interact with, could result in information related to our customers or business being obtained by unauthorized persons or other operational problems or interruptions. We develop and update processes and maintain systems in an effort to try to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these processes and systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Consequently, despite our efforts, the possibility of intrusion, interruption of our business, cyber security incidents and theft cannot be eliminated entirely, and risks associated with each of these remain. While we also seek to obtain assurances that third parties we interact with will protect confidential information, there is a risk the confidentiality of data held or accessed by third parties may be compromised. If a compromise of our data security or in the function of our computer systems or website were to occur, it could have a material adverse effect on our operating results and financial condition, subject us to additional legal, regulatory, and operating costs, and damage our reputation in the marketplace. In addition, our handling and use of personal information is regulated at the international, federal, and state levels. Privacy and information security laws, regulations, and standards such as the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard change from time to time, and compliance with them may result in cost increases due to necessary system changes and the development of new processes, and may be difficult to achieve. If we fail to comply with these laws, regulations, and standards, we could be subjected to legal risk. 
  We may be unable to meet our goals regarding new store openings and other growth drivers of our business.   Our growth is dependent primarily on our ability to attract new customers and increase our activity with existing customers. Historically, the most effective way to attract new customers has been opening new stores, although that has not been our primary growth driver in recent years. We expect to open new stores at the rate of approximately 2% to 3% in 2016; however, we cannot assure you that we can open stores at this rate and we may continue to close or consolidate stores as the need arises. In recent years we have devoted increased resources to other growth drivers, including our industrial vending and Onsite businesses, and our  
    10 

       Table of Contents  

   national accounts team. We have targeted the signing of 200 additional Onsite locations in 2016. While we believe this is achievable with some additional focus from our district managers and our national accounts team, this goal is aggressive and we cannot assure you that we can achieve it. Similarly, while we have taken steps to build momentum in our industrial vending business, we cannot assure you that those steps will lead to additional growth in that business. Failure to achieve any of our goals regarding new store openings, our industrial vending and Onsite businesses, or national accounts signings, could negatively impact our long-term sales growth.  
  Our  pathway-to-profit  strategy, the goal of which is to improve our pre-tax profit margins by growing the average annual sales of our stores, may prove unsuccessful on a long-term basis.   In April 2007, we introduced our  pathway-to-profit  strategy. That strategy involved slowing our annual new store openings and investing the funds saved by opening fewer stores in additional sales and sales leadership personnel. Under the 'pathway-to-profit' strategy, our goal is to increase our average annual sales per store, which would allow us to capture earnings leverage (by spreading operating and administrative expenses over higher sales) and grow our pre-tax profit margin. Our gross profit margin generally decreases as our average per store sales increase, as larger stores sell to larger customers whose more focused buying patterns merit better pricing. However, our operating and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, typically improve as average per store sales grow. In most years the net effect is an increase in our pre-tax profit margin, as the relative improvement in operating and administrative expenses offsets the decrease in gross profit margin. A downturn in the economy or in the principle markets served by us or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified sales and sales leadership personnel could adversely impact our ability to continue to grow our average per store sales. In addition, greater than expected decreases in our gross profit margin resulting from changes in customer mix or other factors noted below, or the failure to control operating and administrative expenses to the degree necessary to offset expected decreases in our gross profit margin, could adversely impact our pre-tax profit margin even as average per store sales increase. The latter was evidenced in 2015 and 2014, when the improvement in our operating and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales was not sufficient to counterbalance the decrease in our gross profit margin, due in part to our push to add more personnel and labor hours in our stores (2015 and 2014) and more district and regional leaders to better serve our stores (2014), and in part to rising miscellaneous expenses. 
  Changes in customer or product mix, downward pressure on sales prices, and changes in volume of orders could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline in the future.   Changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline. From time to time, we have experienced changes in customer or product mix that have caused our gross profit percentage to deteriorate. For example, the portion of our sales attributable to fasteners has been decreasing in recent years. That has adversely affected our gross profit percentage as our non-fastener products generally carry lower gross profit margin than our fastener products. Also, as noted above, our strategy of growing our pre-tax profit margin by increasing our average annual sales per store has contributed to a drop in our gross profit percentage due to resulting changes in our customer mix. If our customer or product mix continues to change, our gross profit percentage may decline further. Downward pressure on sales prices and changes in the volume of our orders could also cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline. We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation, pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition, as was the case in 2009 and the latter half of 2013. Furthermore, reductions in our volume of purchases, as also happened in 2009 and the latter half of 2013, can adversely impact gross profit by reducing supplier volume allowances. During 2015, our gross profit continued to be impacted by changes in customer and product mix, the latter of which was amplified by a reduction in our customers' discretionary spending in the fourth quarter. 
  The ability to identify new products and product lines, and integrate them into our store and distribution network, may impact our ability to compete and our sales and profit margins.   Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product expertise at the store level and identify future products and product lines that complement existing products and product lines and that respond to our customers  needs. We may not be able to compete effectively unless our product selection keeps up with trends in the markets in which we compete or trends in new products. In addition, our ability to integrate new products and product lines into our stores and distribution network could impact sales and profit margins. 
  Our ability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel to staff our stores could impact labor costs, sales at existing stores, and the rate of new store openings, and our ability to transition and retain key senior management may impact our business and financial results.   Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store managers, outside sales personnel, and other store associates, who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to adequately represent this culture to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the turnover rate in the industry is high. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and product knowledge, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. An inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may also delay the planned openings of new stores and planned expansion of our other selling channels. Any such delays, material increases in employee turnover rates, or increases in labor costs, could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results.  
    11 

       Table of Contents  

   Our success also depends on the efforts and abilities of certain key senior management and we have had some transition in our executive officers over the last couple of years. Difficulties in smoothly implementing that transition or the loss of the services of one or more of such key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. 
  We may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors, which could harm our business and operating results.   The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry, although consolidating, still remains a large, fragmented industry that is highly competitive. Our current or future competitors may include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources, and we believe they will continue to challenge us with their product selection, financial resources, and services. Increased competition from brick and mortar retailers in markets in which we have stores or from on-line retailers (particularly those major internet providers who can offer a wide range of products and rapid delivery), and the adoption by competitors of aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, could cause us to lose market share or reduce our prices or increase our spending, thus eroding our operating income. 
  Our competitive advantage in our industrial vending business could be eliminated and the loss of key suppliers of equipment and services for that business could be disruptive.   We believe we have a competitive advantage in industrial vending due to our vending hardware and software, our local store presence (allowing us to service machines more rapidly), our 'vendible' product depth, and, in North America, our distribution strength. These advantages have developed over time; however, other competitors could respond to our expanding industrial vending business with highly competitive platforms of their own. Such competition could negatively impact our ability to expand our industrial vending business or negatively impact the economics of that business. In addition, we currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for the vending machines used in, and certain software and services needed to operate, our industrial vending business. While these machines, software, and services can be obtained from other sources, loss of our current suppliers could be disruptive. 
  We are required to disclose the use of 'conflict minerals' in certain of the products we distribute, which imposes costs on us and could raise reputational and other risks.   The SEC has promulgated rules in connection with the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act regarding disclosure of the use of certain minerals, known as 'conflict minerals', that are mined from the Democratic Republic of the Congo and adjoining countries. These rules have required and will continue to require due diligence and disclosure efforts. There are and will continue to be costs associated with complying with these disclosure requirements, including costs to determine which of our products are subject to the rules and the source of any 'conflict minerals' used in those products. In addition, compliance with these rules could adversely affect the sourcing, supply, and pricing of materials used in those products. Also, we may face reputational challenges if we are unable to verify the origins for all 'conflict minerals' used in products through the procedures we have implemented. We may also encounter challenges to satisfy customers that may require all of the components of products purchased to be certified as conflict free. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, customers may choose to disqualify us as a supplier. 
  We may not be successful in integrating acquisitions and achieving intended benefits and synergies.   We have completed several acquisitions of businesses, including, in 2015, our acquisition of certain assets of Fasteners, Inc., a regional industrial construction supply distributor with store locations in the states of Washington, Idaho, Oregon, and Montana. We expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions that we believe will either expand or complement our business in new or existing markets or further enhance the value and offerings we are able to provide to our existing or future potential customers. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including, among others, a risk of potential loss of key employees of an acquired business, and inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition, diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues, and risks related to the integration of the acquired business including unanticipated changes in our business, our industry, or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause us to not realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions. 
  Industry and General Economic Risks 
  A downturn in the economy or in the principal markets served by us and other factors may affect customer spending, which could harm our operating results.   In general, our sales represent spending on discretionary items or consumption needs by our customers. This spending is affected by many factors, including, among others: 
             
    general business conditions, 
                
    business conditions in our principal markets, 
                
    interest rates, 
                
    inflation, 
                
    liquidity in credit markets, 
                
    taxation, 
                
    government regulations, 
                
    energy and fuel prices and electrical power rates, 
       12 

       Table of Contents  

unemployment trends, 
                
    terrorist attacks and acts of war, 
                
    weather conditions, and 
                
    other matters that influence customer confidence and spending. 
     A downturn in either the national or local economy where our stores operate, or in the principal markets served by us, or changes in any of the other factors described above, could negatively impact sales at our stores, sales through our other selling channels, and the level of profitability of those stores and other selling channels. 
  This risk was demonstrated during recent years. As the economic condition in North America weakened significantly in the fall of 2008 and into 2009, our customers, which operate principally in various manufacturing, non-residential construction, and services sectors, experienced a pronounced slowdown that adversely impacted our sales and operating results in those periods. A lag in these sectors, even as the general economy improved, has continued to adversely impact our business. In a more recent example, 2015 saw a collapse in the price of oil. When oil companies make less money, they also spend less money. This cut-back had a ripple effect throughout not just the oil and gas industry, but also businesses catering to that industry, and resulted in a slowdown of our business with customers in those markets. 
  Our current estimate for total store market potential in North America could be incorrect.   One of our strategies is to grow our business through the introduction of stores into new and existing markets. Based on a snapshot of current marketplace demographics in the United States, Canada, and Mexico, we currently estimate there is potential market opportunity in North America to support approximately 3,500 stores, or approximately 900 more stores than we have today. This estimate is based on our business model today, and market changes such as industrial vending and the internet, or other types of e-business, could cause it to change. In addition, a particular local market s ability to support a store may change because of a change in that market, a change in our store format, or the presence of a competitor s store. We cannot guarantee that our market potential estimates are accurate or that we will decide to open stores to reach the full market opportunity. While we estimate we have the potential in North America for approximately 900 more stores than we have today, we have slowed our store openings in recent years and have focused instead on other growth drivers of our business. 
  Changes in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our net sales, gross profit percentage, cost of goods, distribution expenses, and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating income.   Costs of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel) and energy costs have fluctuated during the last several years. Increases in these costs result in increased production costs for our suppliers. These suppliers typically look to pass their increased costs along to us through price increases. The fuel costs of our distribution and store operations have fluctuated as well. While we typically try to pass increased supplier prices and fuel costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact, we may not be successful, particularly if supplier prices or fuel costs rise rapidly. Failure to fully pass any such increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating income. While increases in the cost of fuel or raw materials could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit margin to deteriorate, or by negatively impacting customers in certain industries, which could cause our sales to those customers to decline. This was evidenced in 2015, when our operating results were negatively impacted by a slow down in our business with customers associated with oil exploration, production, and refinement. 
  Inclement weather and other disruptions to the transportation network could impact our distribution system and adversely impact demand for our products.   Our ability to provide efficient distribution of core business products to our store network is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports, due to events such as the hurricanes of 2005 and 2012 and the longshoreman s strike on the West Coast in 2002, may affect our ability to both maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions. This risk was felt in the first quarter of 2014 as our sales growth was hampered in January and February due to a severe winter in North America and its negative impact on our customers and our trucking network. 
  We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk, and changes in foreign exchange rates could increase our costs to procure products and our foreign sales.   Because the functional currency related to most of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. Fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies and their related currencies could impact our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices and our foreign sales. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the Canadian dollar. 
  Products manufactured in foreign countries may cease to be available, which could adversely affect our inventory levels and operating results.   We obtain certain of our products, and our suppliers obtain certain of their products, from China, Taiwan, South Korea, Mexico, and other foreign countries. Our suppliers could discontinue selling products manufactured in foreign countries at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control or our suppliers' control, including foreign government  
    13 

       Table of Contents  

   regulations, domestic government regulations, political unrest, war, disruption or delays in shipments, changes in local economic conditions, or trade issues. Our operating results and inventory levels could suffer if we are unable to promptly replace a supplier who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with another supplier providing equally appealing products. 
  Our business may be adversely affected by political gridlock in the United States.   We primarily operate in the United States. During recent years there has been significant fiscal uncertainty in the country, the resolution of which has been impeded by political gridlock. We believe this has adversely impacted our business and could negatively impact our business in the future  . 
  The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry is consolidating, which could cause it to become more competitive and could negatively impact our business.   The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry in North America is consolidating. This consolidation is being driven by customer needs and supplier capabilities, which could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by suppliers, or as competitors with new business models are willing and able to operate with lower gross profit on select products. Customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. We believe these customer needs could result in fewer suppliers as the remaining suppliers become larger and capable of being a consistent source of supply. 
  There can be no assurance we will be able in the future to take advantage effectively of the trend toward consolidation. The trend in our industry toward consolidation could make it more difficult for us to maintain our current gross profit and operating income. Furthermore, as our industrial customers face increased foreign competition, and potentially lose business to foreign competitors or shift their operations overseas in an effort to reduce expenses, we may face increased difficulty in growing and maintaining our market share. 
  Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or increase the cost of existing or future financing.   As of   December 31, 2015  , we had loans outstanding under our revolving credit facility of   $350,000  . Loans under the credit facility bear interest at a floating rate based on LIBOR. During periods of volatility and disruption in the U.S. credit markets, financing may become more costly and more difficult to obtain. Although the credit market turmoil of several years ago did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or borrowing costs given that we had not entered into our current credit facility or started borrowing material amounts until after that time, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased. If credit market volatility were to return, then obtaining additional or replacement financing could be more difficult and the cost of doing so could be higher than under our current facility. In addition, due to the floating interest rate provided for under our current credit facility, the cost of servicing loans under that facility could increase. Tight credit conditions could limit our ability to finance stock purchases, dividends, capital expenditures, and other liquidity needs on terms acceptable to us. For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the following sections below: Liquidity and Capital Resources under the heading 'Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations', 'Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk', and Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Investment Risk 
  We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock purchase program.   Although our board of directors has historically authorized the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock and indicated an intention to do so in the future, there are no assurances that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or continue to increase dividends at historic rates. In addition, although our board of directors has authorized share purchase programs and we have purchased shares in 2016,   2015  , and in prior years through these programs, we may discontinue doing so at any time. Any decision to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, to increase those dividends, or to purchase our common stock in the future will be based upon our financial condition and results of operations, the price of our common stock, credit conditions, and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our board of directors. 

14 

       Table of Contents  

            ITEM 1B. 
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
     None. 
             ITEM 2. 
    PROPERTIES 
     We own the following facilities in Winona, Minnesota: 

(1)    Total number of tote locations for small parts storage included in facilities with an automated storage and retrieval system ('ASRS').  
  We own the following facilities, excluding store locations, outside of Winona, Minnesota: 

(1)    Total number of tote locations for small parts storage included in facilities with an ASRS.  
   (2)    This property contains an ASRS with capacity of 52,000 pallet locations, in addition to the 539,000 tote locations for small parts noted above; 185,000 of these small part tote locations are located in the industrial vending automated replenishment facility ('T-Hub'), which is also located on this property. 
   (3)    This facility contains an ASRS with capacity of 14,000 pallet locations, in addition to the 41,000 tote locations for small parts noted above. 
            (4)   
    This facility is currently under construction to add an ASRS with capacity of approximately 112,000 tote locations for small parts. 
     In addition, we own 177 buildings that house our store locations in various cities throughout North America. 
    15 

     Table of Contents  

   All other buildings we occupy are leased. Leased stores range from approximately 3,000 to 10,000 square feet, with lease terms of up to 60 months (most initial lease terms are for 36 to 48 months). In addition to our leased store locations, we also lease the following facilities: 

If economic conditions are suitable, we will, in the future, consider purchasing store locations to house our older stores. It is anticipated the majority of new store locations will continue to be leased. It is our policy to negotiate relatively short lease terms to facilitate relocation of particular store operations, when desirable. Our experience has been that space suitable for our needs and available for leasing is sufficient. 
    
             ITEM 3. 
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
     A description of our legal proceedings, if any, is contained in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
             ITEM 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
     Not applicable. 
    
    16 

       Table of Contents  

            ITEM X. 
    EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
     The executive officers of Fastenal Company are: 
                         Name 
    Employee of 
  Fastenal 
  Since 
      
    Age 
      
    Position 
      Daniel L. Florness 
    1996 
      
    52 
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
      Leland J. Hein 
    1985 
      
    55 
      
    Senior Executive Vice President   Sales and Director 
      James C. Jansen 
    1992 
      
    45 
      
    Executive Vice President   Manufacturing 
      Sheryl A. Lisowski 
    1994 
      
    48 
      
    Interim Chief Financial Officer, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer 
      Nicholas J. Lundquist 
    1979 
      
    58 
      
    Executive Vice President   Operations 
      Charles S. Miller 
    1999 
      
    41 
      
    Executive Vice President   Sales 
      Terry M. Owen 
    1999 
      
    47 
      
    Senior Executive Vice President   Sales Operations 
      Gary A. Polipnick 
    1983 
      
    53 
      
    Executive Vice President   FAST Solutions      
      Ashok Singh 
    2001 
      
    53 
      
    Executive Vice President   Information Technology 
      John L. Soderberg 
    1993 
      
    44 
      
    Executive Vice President   Sales Operations and Support 
      Reyne K. Wisecup 
    1988 
      
    52 
      
    Executive Vice President   Human Resources and Director 

Mr. Florness has been our president and chief executive officer since January 2016. From December 2002 to December 2015, Mr. Florness was an executive vice president and our chief financial officer. From June 1996 to November 2002, Mr. Florness was our chief financial officer. During his time as chief financial officer, Mr. Florness' responsibilities expanded beyond finance, including leadership of product development and procurement and the company's national accounts business. Mr. Florness has served as one our directors since January 2016. 
  Mr. Hein has been our senior executive vice president   sales since January 2016. Mr. Hein's responsibilities include sales and operational oversight of our western United States business. From July 2015 to December 2015, Mr. Hein was our chief operating officer. Mr. Hein was our president and chief executive officer from January 2015 to July 2015, and our president from July 2012 to December 2014. From November 2007 to July 2012, Mr. Hein was one of our executive vice presidents   sales. Prior to November 2007, Mr. Hein served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. Mr. Hein has served as one of our directors since 2014. 
  Mr. Jansen has been our executive vice president   manufacturing since January 2016. Mr. Jansen's responsibilities include oversight of our manufacturing operations. From December 2010 to December 2015, Mr. Jansen was our executive vice president - operations. From November 2007 to December 2010, Mr. Jansen was our executive vice president   internal operations. From May 2005 to November 2007, Mr. Jansen served as leader of systems development (this role encompassed both information systems and distribution systems development). From April 2000 to April 2005, Mr. Jansen served as sales leader of our Texas based region. 
  Ms. Lisowski has been our interim chief financial officer since January 2016, and our controller and chief accounting officer since October 2013. From March 2007 to October 2013, Ms. Lisowski served as our controller   accounting operations. Ms. Lisowski joined Fastenal in 1994 and, prior to March 2007, served in various roles of increasing responsibility within our finance and accounting team. 
  Mr. Lundquist has been our executive vice president   operations since July 2012. Mr. Lundquist's responsibilities include distribution development, product development, supplier development, and supply chain. From November 2007 to July 2012, Mr. Lundquist was one of our executive vice presidents   sales. From December 2002 to November 2007, Mr. Lundquist was our executive vice president and chief operating officer. 
  Mr. Miller has been our executive vice president - sales since November 2015. Mr. Miller s responsibilities include sales and operational oversight of our eastern United States business. From January 2009 to October 2015, Mr. Miller served as regional vice president of our southeast central region based primarily in Tennessee and Kentucky. Prior to January 2009, Mr. Miller served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  Mr. Owen has been our senior executive vice president   sales operations since January 2016. Mr. Owen's responsibilities include oversight of our information technology, sales operations and support, international sales, national accounts, FAST Solutions       , and manufacturing operations. From July 2015 to December 2015, Mr. Owen was one of our executive vice president   sales. From May 2014 to June 2015, Mr. Owen served as our executive vice president   e-business, and from December 2007 to May 2014, Mr. Owen was regional vice president of our Texas based and Mexico regions. Prior to December 2007, Mr. Owen served in various distribution center leadership roles. 
    17 

       Table of Contents  

   Mr. Polipnick has been our executive vice president   FAST Solutions        since January 2016. Mr. Polipnick's responsibilities include our FAST Solutions        programs, e-commerce sales, and store inventory modeling and merchandising programs. From July 2015 to December 2015, Mr. Polipnick was our executive vice president   e-business. From July 2012 to June 2015, Mr. Polipnick served as one of our executive vice president   sales. From November 2007 to July 2012, Mr. Polipnick was regional vice president of our Winona based region. Prior to November 2007, Mr. Polipnick served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  Mr. Singh has been our executive vice president   information technology since January 2011. Mr. Singh joined Fastenal in 2001 and, prior to January 2011, served in various roles of increasing responsibility in the administration and application development areas within our information technology group. 
  Mr. Soderberg has been our executive vice president   sales operations and support since May 2014. Mr. Soderberg s responsibilities include industry sales, pricing, contracts, and sales support. From April 2010 to May 2014, Mr. Soderberg was one of our vice presidents   sales. From April 2005 to April 2010, Mr. Soderberg served as regional vice president of our  Washington based region. Prior to April 2005, Mr. Soderberg served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  Ms. Wisecup has been our executive vice president   human resources since November 2007. Prior to November 2007, Ms. Wisecup served in various support roles, most recently as director of employee development. Ms. Wisecup has served as one of our directors since 2000. 
  The executive officers are elected by our board of directors for a term of one year and serve until their successors are elected and qualified. None of our executive officers is related to any other such executive officer or to any of our directors. 
    18 

       Table of Contents  

   PART II 
    
             ITEM 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
     Common Stock Data 
  Dollar amounts in this section are stated in whole numbers. 
  Our shares are traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol  FAST . As of   January 22, 2016  , there were approximately 1,200 record holders of our common stock, which includes nominees or broker dealers holding stock on behalf of an estimated 185,000 beneficial owners. 
  The following table sets forth, by quarter, the high and low closing sale price   (1)    of our shares on The NASDAQ Stock Market for   2015   and   2014  . 

(1)    The closing sale price was obtained from Shareholder.com, a division of Nasdaq OMX. 
  The following table sets forth our dividend payout (on a per share basis) in each of the last two years: 

On   January 14, 2016  , we announced a quarterly dividend of   $0.30   per share to be paid on   February 26, 2016   to shareholders of record at the close of business on   January 29, 2016  . Our board of directors intends to continue paying quarterly dividends, provided that any future determination as to payment of dividends will depend upon the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and such other factors as are deemed relevant by the board of directors. 
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  The table below sets forth information regarding purchases of our common stock during each of the last three months of   2015  : 

(1)    On May 1, 2015, our board of directors authorized the purchase by us of an additional 4,000,000 shares of our common stock. The reported purchases were made under this authorization, which does not have an expiration date. As of December 31, 2015, we had remaining authority to purchase 2,900,000 shares under this authorization. See Note 4 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of certain additional purchases by us of shares of our common stock effected after December 31, 2015.  
  Purchases of shares of our common stock earlier in   2015   are described later in this Form 10-K under the heading  Item 7. Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations . 
    19 

     Table of Contents  

   The Fastenal Company Common Stock Comparative Performance Graph 
  Set forth below is a graph comparing, for the five years ended December 31,   2015  , the yearly cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock with the yearly cumulative total shareholder return of the S P 500 Index and the Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index.  
  The comparison of total shareholder returns in the performance graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2010 in Fastenal Company, the S P 500 Index, and the Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index, and that dividends were reinvested when and as paid. 
  Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Total Return Among Fastenal Company, the S P 500 Index, and the Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index 

Note - The graph and index table above were obtained from Zachs SEC Compliance Services Group. 
    
             ITEM 6. 
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
     Incorporated herein by reference is Ten-Year Selected Financial Data on pages 4 and 5 of Fastenal s   2015   Annual Report to Shareholders of which this Form 10-K forms a part, a portion of which is filed as Exhibit 13 to this Form 10-K. 
    
    20 

       Table of Contents  

            ITEM 7. 
    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
     The following is management s discussion and analysis of certain significant factors that have affected our financial position and operating results during the periods included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. (Dollar amounts are in thousands except for per share amounts and where otherwise noted.) 
  BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW 
  Fastenal is a North American leader in the wholesale distribution of industrial and construction supplies. We distribute these supplies through a network of approximately 2,600 company owned stores. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and maintenance, repair, and operations (MRO). The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our product include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration, production and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. Geographically, our stores and customers are primarily located in North America. 
  BUSINESS DISCUSSION 
  We are a growth focused organization and we constantly strive to make investments into the growth drivers of our business. These investments typically center on people. By adding more people we add to our ability to interact with and to serve our customers from our local store and to back them up in some type of support role. In recent years this investment has also centered on more industrial vending devices to serve our customers  needs on a 24 hours a day, 7 days a week basis. 
  The table below summarizes our store employee count and our total employee count at the end of the periods presented. This is intended to demonstrate the energy (or capacity) added. Later in this document we discuss the average full-time equivalent employee count to help explain the expense trends in more detail. The final two items below summarize our investments in industrial vending devices and in store locations.  

For a quick recap of some positive and negative aspects of our business, we would note the following: 
  Positive   
             (3) 
    We are seeing a very strong pace of national account signings. During 2015, we signed more new contracts (defined as new customer accounts with a multi-site contract) with national account customers than in 2014. This increase reversed the declining trend in the previous year. Similar to the third quarter of 2015, the business with our top 100 national account customers (representing approximately 25% of sales) experienced poor sales results in the fourth quarter of 2015, with net sales contraction of approximately 4.3%, while sales to our remaining national account customers (representing approximately 22% of sales) grew approximately 8.1%. 
              (4) 
    We have also seen an expansion of our Onsite business (defined as dedicated sales and service provided from within the customer's facility) during 2015. During the year we signed 82 new Onsite customer locations. 
              (5) 
    We converted approximately 800 stores to the CSP 16 (Customer Service Project 2016) format in the fourth quarter of 2015. This merchandising footprint, disclosed at our November 2015 Investor Day, involves expanded inventory placement at our store locations to enhance same-day capabilities. 
       21 

       Table of Contents  

   Negative   
           (1) 
    2015 was hit hard by a slowdown in our business with customers connected to the oil and gas industry. Those customers include direct industry participants as well as other customers serving those participants.  
              (2) 
    2015 was negatively affected by a strong U.S. dollar, relative to other currencies, which hurts our U.S. customer base (which accounts for approximately 89% of sales). 
              (3) 
    The net sales of our Canadian business, which grew about 4% in 'local currency' during the fourth quarter of 2015, slowed from 6% growth in the third quarter of 2015. 
              (4) 
    During the fourth quarter of 2015 we decided to terminate our manufacturing joint venture in Brazil and settled several unrelated disputes. These items resulted in approximately $4 million of additional expense in the quarter. We listed these as negative due to the immediate financial impact, but consider these to be positive developments allowing us to focus on growth. 
              (5) 
    In late November 2015, and even more so in late December 2015, we experienced a greater number and longer duration of customer plant shutdowns related to the holiday season. 
       
  The following sections contain an overview of the following: 
           1. 
    Sales and sales trends     a recap of our recent sales trends and some insight into the activities with different end markets. 
              2. 
    Growth drivers of our business     a recap of how we grow our business. 
              3. 
    Profit drivers of our business     a recap of how we increase our profits. 
              4. 
    Statement of earnings information     a recap of the components of our income statement. 
              5. 
    Cash flow impact items     a recap of the operational working capital utilized in our business, and the related cash flow. 
     The most important thing to note before you read this is to remember Fastenal is several businesses within itself; a fastener distributor (about 40% of our business) and a non-fastener distributor (about 60% of our business). 
  FASTENER SALES 
  First and foremost, we are a fastener distributor. We have been in this business for almost 50 years. We are good at it. We have strong capabilities at sourcing and procurement, at quality control, at logistics, and at local customer service. Each of these capabilities is focused on the customer at the end of the supply chain. This business is split about 60% production/construction needs and about 40% maintenance needs. The former is a great business, but it can be cyclical because about 75% of our manufacturing customer base is engaged in some type of heavy manufacturing. The sale of production fasteners is also a sticky business in the short-term as it is expensive and time consuming for our customers to change their supplier relationships. While our customer base values the capabilities we bring to the table, in the last twelve months this group of customers has seen a contraction in its production and therefore its need for fasteners. During this time frame, our fastener product line has seen its daily growth decrease from about 10% growth in the last six months of 2014 to about 6% contraction in the fourth quarter of 2015. Said another way, our market share gains continue to be strong, but the contraction from our existing customers, plus some price deflation, has eliminated our growth and created contraction. 
  NON-FASTENER SALES 
  Second, we have a non-fastener maintenance and supply business. We have actively pursued this business in the last 20 to 25 years. The capabilities we developed as a fastener distributor, described above, provide a backbone to growing this  newer  business. This backbone has been enhanced in the last five years with our added capabilities in industrial vending. Given our local customer service, we believe we have a structural advantage in the industrial vending business. There is more to industrial vending than the device or the financial resources to deploy; we believe the ability to replenish with a local team from an integrated supply chain network (i.e., the 'Team behind the Machine') is critical to the long-term success of this channel. Because of these capabilities, the non-fastener business remains more resilient. However, similar to our fastener business, our non-fastener business has weakened in the last twelve months. During this time frame, our non-fastener product line has seen its daily sales growth decrease from about 18% growth in the last six months of 2014 to about 1% growth in the fourth quarter of 2015.  
  Please read through the detailed   Sales and Sales Trends   section later in this document for additional insight. 
  Our gross profit decreased from 50.5% in both the fourth quarter of 2014 and third quarter of 2015 to 49.9% in the fourth quarter of 2015. The relationship between sales and gross profit depends on our success within our large account business (an area that is still under-represented in our customer mix). The large account end market produces a below average gross profit; however, as demonstrated in recent quarters, it leverages our existing network of capabilities and allows us to enjoy strong incremental operating income growth. This customer mix change (large versus smaller), as well as our product mix change (from fasteners to non-fasteners), over time are a constant drain on our gross profit, a trend we expect to continue in the future.  
    22 

       Table of Contents  

   However, this trend had limited relevance in the fourth quarter of 2015. Rather, we saw a noticeable squeezing of discretionary spending by our customers in November and December of 2015 (see related discussion about 2015 later in 'summarizing comments'), which produced a noticeable drop in the sale of less frequently purchased products. This resulted in all of the drop in gross profit, when compared to the third quarter of 2015 and substantially all of the change from the fourth quarter of 2014. We believe this to be a temporary issue; however, we don t know when this drop will subside. Our gross profit is also impacted by supplier incentives. With weaker net sales growth and our tight management of inventory levels, the growth of spending with our suppliers is lower; hence, our supplier incentives are reduced. 
  In regards to operating expenses, we added 2,329 people to the Fastenal organization in the last twelve months (about 81% of these people were added to a store or some other type of selling location). This provided a meaningful increase in our capacity. However, we needed to fund this increased capacity. We did this by (1) managing our total operating and administrative expenses outside of payroll related costs, and (2) managing our hours worked in a very focused site by site fashion (our store headcount grew by 13.6% in the last twelve months, but our average full-time equivalent store headcount only grew by 10.2%). These two items allowed us to invest in store personnel and fund that investment in a weak economic environment. Below is a quick recap of our full-time equivalent headcount to supplement the information discussed earlier in this document: 

We touched on our industrial vending earlier, but here is a quick recap: During the fourth quarter of 2015, we signed 4,016 devices (we signed 4,689 devices in the third quarter of 2015 and we signed 4,108 devices during the fourth quarter of 2014), our installed device count on December 31, 2015 was 55,510 (an increase of 18.5% over December 31, 2014), and the percent of total net sales to customers with industrial vending was 43.9%. Our total daily sales to customers with industrial vending during the fourth quarter of 2015 grew 0.7% over the fourth quarter of 2014. However, daily sales of non-fastener products to customers with vending grew approximately 4%, while daily sales of fasteners to customers with vending contracted approximately 8%. 
  Finally, some thoughts on capital allocation: During the latter half of 2014 and throughout 2015, we have been modifying our capital allocation by buying back some common stock. One factor influencing our stock buybacks is our external valuation. Our relative stock valuation has weakened over the last several years, which prompted us to reassess our cash deployment. To this end, we have spent approximately $337 million buying back stock in the last six quarters and have repurchased approximately 2.7% of our outstanding shares from the start of this time frame. We are mindful of our shareholders  expectations relative to our dividend paying history and have primarily funded this buyback with debt. Over the last three to four years, we had dramatically increased our capital expenditures, relative to our net earnings, for the rapid deployment of distribution automation and industrial vending over where those expenditures had been in prior years. These investments will continue in the future; however, we expect capital expenditures, relative to our net earnings, will moderate and will allow us to continue to fund our cash needs for our day-to-day business primarily from continuing operations. Please read through the detailed   Cash Flow Impact Items   section, and the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows later in this document, for additional insight. 
  SALES AND SALES TRENDS 
  While reading these items, it is helpful to appreciate several aspects of our marketplace: (1) it's big, the North American marketplace for industrial supplies is estimated to be in excess of $160 billion per year (and we have expanded beyond North America), (2) no company has a significant portion of this market, (3) many of the products we sell are individually inexpensive, (4) when our customer needs something quickly or unexpectedly our local store is a quick source, (5) the cost and time to manage and procure these products is meaningful, (6) the cost to move these products, many of which are bulky, can be significant, (7) many customers would prefer to reduce their number of suppliers to simplify their business, and (8) many customers would prefer to utilize various technologies to improve availability and reduce waste. 
  Our motto is   Growth through Customer Service       . This is important given the points noted above. We believe in efficient markets   to us, this means we can grow our market share if we provide the greatest value to our customers. We believe our ability to grow is amplified if we can service our customers at the closest economic point of contact. For us, this 'closest economic point of contact' is the local store; therefore, our focus centers on understanding our customers' day, their opportunities, and their obstacles.  
    23 

       Table of Contents  

   The concept of growth is simple  ,   find more customers every day and increase our activity with them. However, execution is hard work. First, we recruit service-minded individuals to support our customers and their business. Second, we operate in a decentralized fashion to help identify the greatest value for our customers. Third, we have a great team behind the store to operate efficiently and to help identify new business solutions. Fourth, we do these things every day. Finally, we strive to generate strong profits; these profits produce the cash flow necessary to fund our growth and to support the needs of our customers. 
    SALES GROWTH 
  Note   Daily sales are defined as the total net sales for the period divided by the number of business days (in the United States) in the period. 
  Net sales and daily sales were as follows: 

The increase in net sales in   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   came primarily from higher unit sales. Our growth in net sales was impacted by slight inflationary price changes in our non-fastener products and some price deflation in our fastener products, with the net impact being a slight drag on growth. The higher unit sales resulted primarily from increases in sales at older store locations (discussed below and again later in this document) and to a lesser degree the opening of new store locations in the last several years. Our growth in net sales was not meaningfully impacted by the introduction of new products or services, with one exception. Over the last several years, our industrial vending initiative has stimulated faster growth with a subset of our customers (discussed later in this document). The growth in net sales at the older store locations was due to the growth drivers of our business (discussed later in this document). The rate of growth in net sales in 2015 was hindered by weakness in the industrial production and non-residential construction industries served by us. The added growth in 2014 was largely related to two things   the expansion, which began in the latter half of 2013, in the number of our store employees and the number of district and regional leaders supporting our stores, all in effort to generate more selling energy within our stores, and a stabilization in our OEM fastener business. 
  The impact of the economy is best reflected in the growth performance of our stores opened greater than ten years ago (store sites opened as follows: 2015 group   opened 2005 and earlier, 2014 group   opened 2004 and earlier, and 2013 group   opened 2003 and earlier) and opened greater than five years ago (store sites opened as follows: 2015 group   opened 2010 and earlier, 2014 group   opened 2009 and earlier, and 2013 group   opened 2008 and earlier). These two groups of stores are more cyclical due to the increased market share they enjoy in their local markets. The stores opened greater than two years ago represent a consistent  same store  view of our business (store sites opened as follows: 2015 group   opened 2013 and earlier, 2014 group   opened 2012 and earlier, and 2013 group   opened 2011 and earlier). The daily sales change for each of these groups was as follows: 

Note: The age groups above are measured as of the last day of each respective year. 
  Stores opened in   2015   contributed approximately $8,745 (or 0.2%) to   2015   net sales. Stores opened in   2014   contributed approximately $28,028 (or 0.7%) to   2015   net sales and approximately $9,762 (or 0.3%) to   2014   net sales. The rate of growth in sales of store locations generally levels off after they have been open for five years, and, as stated earlier, the sales generated at our older store locations typically vary more with the economy than do the sales of younger stores. 
    24 

       Table of Contents  

   SALES BY PRODUCT LINE 
  The approximate mix of sales from the fastener product line and from the other product lines was as follows: 

The decrease in our fastener sales as a percentage of total sales has been driven by the continued success of our non-fastener product lines, which we began to add in the 1990's, and by the growth of our industrial vending program. Since we sell primarily non-fastener products in our industrial vending machines, this program has led to greater resilience to weak industrial production of our non-fastener business compared to our fastener business. 
    MONTHLY SALES CHANGES, SEQUENTIAL TRENDS, AND END MARKET PERFORMANCE 
  This section focuses on three distinct views of our business   monthly sales changes, sequential trends, and end market performance. The first discussion regarding   monthly sales changes   provides a good mechanical view of our business based on the age of our stores. The second discussion provides a framework for understanding the   sequential trends   (that is, comparing a month to the immediately preceding month, and also looking at the cumulative change from an earlier benchmark month) in our business. Finally, we believe the third discussion regarding   end market performance   provides insight into activities with our various types of customers. 
  Monthly Sales Changes: 
  All company sales     During the months noted below, all of our selling locations, when combined, had daily sales growth rates of (compared to the same month in the preceding year):   

  Stores opened greater than   two   years     Our stores opened greater than two years (store sites opened as follows:   2015   group   opened   2013   and earlier,   2014   group   opened   2012   and earlier, and   2013   group   opened   2011   and earlier) represent a consistent 'same-store' view of our business. During the months noted below, the stores opened greater than two years had daily sales growth rates of (compared to the same month in the preceding year):   

  Stores opened greater than   five   years     The impact of the economy, over time, is best reflected in the growth performance of our stores opened greater than five years (store sites opened as follows:   2015   group   opened   2010   and earlier,   2014   group   opened   2009   and earlier, and   2013   group   opened   2008   and earlier). This group, which represented about 90% of our total sales in   2015  , is more cyclical due to the increased market share they enjoy in their local markets. During the months noted below, the stores opened greater than five years had daily sales growth rates of (compared to the same month in the preceding year):   

  Summarizing comments         There are three distinct influences to our growth: (1) execution, (2) currency fluctuations, and (3) economic fluctuations. This discussion centers on (2) and (3).  
  The change in currencies in foreign countries (primarily Canada) relative to the United States dollar impacted our net sales growth over the last several years. During the years 2013, 2014, and 2015, it lowered our net sales growth by 0.2%, 0.5%, and 1.2%, respectively. 
    25 

     Table of Contents  

   During the first half of 2013, the fastener product line was heavily impacted by our industrial production business. These customers utilize our fasteners in the manufacture/assembly of their finished products. The end markets with the most pronounced weakening included heavy machinery manufacturers with exposure to: mining, military, agriculture, and construction. The daily sales growth in July 2013 and December 2013 were negatively impacted by the timing of the July 4th holiday (Thursday in 2013 versus Wednesday in 2012) and the Christmas/New Year holiday (Wednesday in 2013 versus Tuesday in 2012). This resulted in a 'lone'   business   day on Friday, July 5, 2013, in which many of our customers were closed, and three distinct one to two day work periods in the last two weeks of December 2013. The December 2013 impact was amplified due to poor weather conditions. 
  Our sales to customers engaged in light and medium duty manufacturing (largely related to consumer products) began to improve late in 2013 and into 2014. This made sense given the trends in the PMI Index at that time. In the first quarter of 2014, our sales growth was hampered in January and February due to a weak economy and foreign exchange rate fluctuations (primarily related to the Canadian dollar); however, the biggest impact was a severe winter in North America and its negative impact on our customers and our trucking network. In March 2014, the weak economy and negative foreign exchange rate fluctuations continued; however, the weather normalized and our daily sales growth expanded to 11.6%. This double digit growth in March was helped by the Easter timing (April in 2014). In the second quarter of 2014, the negative impact of the Easter timing was felt, and then a 'less noisy' picture emerged in May and June. Our sales to customers engaged in heavy machinery manufacturing (primarily serving the mining, military, agricultural, and construction end markets), which represents approximately one fifth of our business, had a very weak 2013, but stabilized late in 2013 and improved in 2014. 
  During 2015, our business weakened. As mentioned earlier in this document and in prior quarterly disclosures, the weakening initially involved customers tied to the oil and gas sector, but grew during the course of the year to include customers across additional industries and in geographic areas not typically associated with the oil and gas sector. In November and December one distinct trend emerged involving customer plant shutdowns. This is not uncommon during the holiday season; however, we experienced a greater number and duration of shutdowns than in prior years during both late November and late December, with the trend more pronounced in late December. 
  Sequential Trends: 
  We find it helpful to think about the monthly sequential changes in our business using the analogy of climbing a stairway     This stairway has several predictable landings where there is a pause in the sequential gain (i.e. April, July, and October to December), but generally speaking, climbs from January to October. The October landing then establishes the benchmark for the start of the next year. 
  History has identified these landings in our business cycle. They generally relate to months with impaired business days (certain holidays). The first landing centers on Easter, which alternates between March and April (Easter occurred in April 2015, in April 2014, and in March 2013), the second landing centers on July 4th, and the third landing centers on the approach of winter with its seasonal impact on primarily our construction business and with the Christmas/New Year holidays. The holidays we noted impact the trends because they either move from month-to-month or because they move around during the week (the July 4th and Christmas/New Year holiday impacts are examples). 
  The table below shows the pattern to the sequential change in our daily sales. The line labeled 'Benchmark' is an historical average of our sequential daily sales change for the period 1998 to 2013, excluding 2008 and 2009. We believe this time frame will serve to show the historical pattern and could serve as a benchmark for current performance. We excluded the 2008 to 2009 time frame because it contains an extreme economic event and we don't believe it is comparable. The '2015', '2014', and '2013' lines represent our actual sequential daily sales changes. The '15Delta', '14Delta', and '13Delta' lines indicate the difference between the 'Benchmark' and the actual results in the respective year. 

(1)    The January figures represent the percentage change from the previous October, whereas the remaining figures represent the percentage change from the previous month. 
    26 

     Table of Contents  

   A graph of the sequential daily sales change pattern discussed above, starting with a base of '100' in the previous October and ending with the next October, would be as follows: 
  
  End Market Performance: 
  Fluctuations in end market business     The sequential trends noted above were directly linked to fluctuations in our end markets. To place this in perspective   approximately 50% of our business has historically been with customers engaged in some type of manufacturing. The daily sales growth rates to these customers, when compared to the same period in the prior year, were as follows: 

As indicated earlier, our manufacturing business consists of two subsets: the industrial production business (this is business where we supply products that become part of the finished goods produced by our customers and is sometimes referred to as OEM - original equipment manufacturing) and the maintenance portion (this is business where we supply products that maintain the facility or the equipment of our customers engaged in manufacturing and is sometimes referred to as MRO - maintenance, repair, and operations). The industrial business is more fastener centered, while the maintenance portion is represented by all product categories.  
  The best way to understand the change in our   industrial production   business is to examine the results in our fastener product line (just under 40% of our business) which is heavily influenced by changes in our business with heavy equipment manufacturers. From a company perspective, sales growth rates of fasteners, when compared to the same period in the prior year, were as follows (note: this information includes   all   end markets): 

27 

     Table of Contents  

   By contrast, the best way to understand the change in the maintenance portion of the manufacturing business is to examine the results in our non-fastener product lines. From a company perspective, sales growth rates of non-fasteners, when compared to the same period in the prior year, were as follows (note: this information includes   all   end markets): 

The non-fastener business demonstrated greater relative resilience over the last several years, when compared to our fastener business and to the distribution industry in general, due to our strong industrial vending program. However, this business was not immune to the impact of a weak industrial environment. 
  Our non-residential construction customers have historically represented 20% to 25% of our business. The daily sales growth rates to these customers, when compared to the same period in the prior year, were as follows:   

Our non-residential construction business is heavily influenced by the industrial economy, particularly the energy sector. The volatility and weakness of energy prices has weakened this business, particularly in the last three quarters. 
  A graph of the sequential daily sales trends to these two end markets in   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , starting with a base of '100' in the previous October and ending with the next October, would be as follows:  
    
  Manufacturing 

28 

     Table of Contents  

   Non-Residential Construction 
  
    GROWTH DRIVERS OF OUR BUSINESS 
  Note   Dollar amounts in this section are presented in whole dollars, not thousands. 
  We grow by continuously adding customers and by increasing the activity with each customer. We believe this growth is enhanced by great people located in close proximity to our customers. This allows us to provide a range of services and product availability that our competitors can't easily match. Historically, we expanded our reach by opening stores at a very fast pace. These openings were initially in the United States and expanded beyond the United States beginning in the mid 1990's.  
  For a little perspective, we began our business in 1967 with an idea to sell nuts and bolts (fasteners) through vending machines. We soon learned the technology of the 1960's wasn't ready, and also learned a lot of products didn't fit, so we went to 'Plan B': sell to business users with a direct sales force. It took us a number of years to 'work out the bugs', but ten years later we began to pick up the pace of store openings. After another ten years of expansion we had approximately 50 stores and sales of about $20 million. Our need for cash to fund our growth was growing, as was our desire to allow employee ownership. This led us to a public offering in 1987. 
  In our first ten years of being public (1987 to 1997), we opened stores at an annual rate approaching 30% per year. In the next ten years (1997 to 2007), we opened stores at an annual rate of approximately 10% to 15% and, since 2007, at an annual rate of approximately 1% to 8%. We opened 24 stores in 2014, at an annual rate of approximately 1%, and 41 stores in 2015, at an annual rate of approximately 2%. Our preliminary estimate for 2016 is to open 60 to 75 stores, which is an annual rate of approximately 2% to 3%. 
  During our almost 50 years of business existence, we have constantly evolved to better serve the market (as is described in the paragraphs below) and have always been willing to challenge our approach. In our first 20 to 25 years, we closed several store locations because we felt the market was insufficient to operate a profitable 'fastener only' business. Every one of those locations was subsequently  reopened  when our business model evolved to serve these markets profitably. During the last 20 to 25 years, we have enjoyed continued success with our store-based model, but we continue to challenge our approach. This resulted in our closing approximately 85 stores in the ten years prior to 2014 - not because they weren t successful, but rather because we felt we had a better approach to growth. During 2014, we continued to challenge our approach and closed 73 stores. Several items we think are noteworthy: the group of stores we identified for closure in the second half of 2014 was profitable in the first quarter of 2014 (our 2014 analysis measurement period); those stores operated with average sales of about $36 thousand per month. We chose to close this group because we felt this was simply a better approach to growing our business profitably. During 2015, we closed 50 stores. Similar to 2014, we chose to close this group of stores because we felt this was  
    29 

     Table of Contents  

   simply a better approach. During the third quarter of 2014 (our 2015 analysis measurement period), 35 of these 50 stores were profitable. 
  There is a short-term price for closing these stores; and, since we believe we will maintain the vast majority of the sales associated with these locations and most of the impacted employees have a nearby store from which to operate, the price primarily relates to the future commitments related to the leased locations. We have recorded the impaired future costs related to these commitments. The related expense was not material as these locations have relatively short lease commitments and minimal leasehold improvements. We use the term closed; however, we consider them to be consolidated into another location since the vast majority are in close proximity to another store.  
  During the years, our expanding footprint has provided us with greater access to more customers, and we have continued to diversify our growth drivers. This was done to provide existing store personnel with more tools to grow their business organically, and the results of this are reflected in our earlier discussion on sales growth at stores opened greater than five years. In the early 1990's, we began to expand our product lines beyond primarily fasteners, and we added new product knowledge to our bench (the non-fastener products now represent about 60% of our sales). This was our first big effort to diversify our growth drivers. The next step began in the mid to late 1990's when we began to add sales personnel with certain specialties or focus. This began with our National Accounts group in 1995, and over time, has expanded to include individuals dedicated to: (1) sales related to our internal manufacturing division, (2) government sales, (3) internet sales, (4) construction, (5) specific products (most recently metalworking), and (6) industrial vending. Another step occurred at our sales locations (this includes Fastenal stores as well as strategic account stores and Onsite locations) and at our distribution centers, and began with a targeted merchandising and inventory placement strategy that included our 'Customer Service Project' approximately thirteen years ago and our 'Master Stocking Hub' initiative approximately eight years ago. These strategies allowed us to better target where to stock certain products (local store, regional distribution center, master stocking hub, or supplier) and allowed us to improve our fulfillment, lower our freight costs, and improve our ability to serve a broader range of customers. During 2013 and 2014, we expanded our store-based inventory offering around select industries (with an emphasis on fasteners, construction products, and safety products) and beginning in the latter half of 2013 we expanded two key employee groups: (1) the number of employees working in our stores and (2) the number of district and regional leaders supporting our stores. To improve the efficiency, accuracy, and capacity of our distribution centers, we made significant investments into distribution automation over the last several years (a majority of our facilities are now automated, and greater than 80% of our picking occurs at an automated distribution center). Finally, we also added a high frequency distribution center, internally known as T-hub, to support vending and other high frequency selling activities. During 2015, we continued to enhance the technology in our automated distribution centers, and sharpened our focus on growing our Onsite business. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we also began further expansion of our store-based inventory offering (CSP 16). This merchandising footprint involves expanded inventory placement at our store locations to enhance same-day delivery capabilities. The theme that shines through in all these changes is a simple one   invest into and support our sales machine   the local store. 
  Over the last several years, our industrial vending operation has been an expanding component of our store-based business. We believe industrial vending will be an important chapter in the Fastenal story; we also believe it has the potential to be transformative to industrial distribution, and that we have a 'first mover' advantage. Given this, we have been investing aggressively to maximize the advantage. 
  Our expanded industrial vending portfolio consists of 20 different vending devices, with the FAST 5000 device, our helix based machine (think candy machine), representing approximately 40% of the installed machines. We have learned much about these devices over the last several years and currently have target monthly revenue ranging from under $1,000 to in excess of $3,000 per device. The following two tables provide two views of our data: (1) actual device count regardless of the type of machine and (2)  machine equivalent' count based on the weighted target monthly revenue of each device (compared to the FAST 5000 device, which has a $2,000 monthly revenue target). For example, the 12-door locker, with target monthly revenue of $750, would be counted as  0.375 machine equivalent  (0.375 = $750/$2,000). 
    30 

     Table of Contents  

   The industrial vending information related to contracts signed during each period was as follows: 

The industrial vending information related to installed machines at the end of each period was as follows: 

The following table includes some additional statistics regarding our sales and sales growth: 

(1)    The percentage of total sales (vended and traditional) to customers currently using a vending solution. 
   (2)    The growth in total sales (vended and traditional) to customers currently using a vending solution compared to the same period in the preceding year. 
  Our total daily sales growth to customers with industrial vending declined during 2015, which was primarily the result of the slowdown in our business with customers connected to the oil and gas industry, including direct industry participants as well as other customers serving those participants. To put this into perspective, in the third quarter of 2015, daily sales to customers with vending grew 4.8% over the third quarter of 2014; however, daily sales of non-fastener products to customers with vending grew approximately 8%, while daily sales of fasteners to customers with vending contracted approximately 3%. Further, in the fourth quarter of 2015, daily sales to customers with vending grew 0.7% over the fourth quarter of 2014; however, daily sales of non-fastener products to customers with vending grew approximately 4%, while daily sales of fasteners to customers with vending contracted approximately 8%. 
  In addition to the industrial vending operation noted above, which primarily relates to our non-fastener business, we also provide bin stock programs (also known as  keep fill  programs in the industry) to numerous customers. This business, which relates to both our maintenance customers (MRO fasteners and non-fasteners) and original equipment manufacturers (OEM fasteners), has many similar attributes to our industrial vending relationships. These attributes include a strong relationship with these customers, where we are often their preferred supplier, and a frequent level of business transactions. This business is performed without the aid of a vending machine, but does make use of the latest scanning technologies, scale systems, and our fully integrated distribution network to manage the supply chain for all sizes of customers. In recent years, we have begun to refer to this business as FMI (Fastenal Managed Inventory). 
    31 

     Table of Contents  

   PROFIT DRIVERS OF OUR BUSINESS 
  As we state several times in this document, profit is important to us. For a distribution business profit and cash flow go hand in hand, and this cash flow funds our growth; creates value for our customers, our employees, our suppliers, and our shareholders; and provides us with short-term and long-term flexibility. Over time, we grow our profits by continuously working to grow sales and to improve our relative profitability. We achieve our improvements in relative profitability by improving our relative gross profit, by structurally lowering our operating and administrative expenses, or both. 
  We also grow our profits by allowing our inherent profitability to shine through - we refer to this as the 'pathway to profit'. The distinction is important. The  pathway to profit  to which we refer is merely the natural  per store  leverage that occurs as the average net sales per month of a store increases. There are two diverging trends that occur as a store grows; first, the gross profit percentage at a store generally declines and, second, our operating and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales generally improve. The expense improvement starts on day one, the gross profit percentage decline typically occurs when the average sales at a store move above $100 thousand per month.  Fortunately, the expense improvements typically far outweigh the gross profit percentage declines. 
  The best way to appreciate this dynamic is to look at the cost components of our business. The cost components of a store include the following: (1) cost of sales and (2) operating and administrative expenses. The operating and administrative expenses can be further split into (listed by relative size): (1) people costs (base pay, incentive pay, benefits, training, and payroll related taxes), (2) occupancy costs (facility expenses such as rent, property taxes, repairs, and depreciation on owned facilities, as well as utility costs, equipment expenses, and vending machine related expenses), and (3)  all other  expenses. The largest component of the last category is the vehicles needed in each store to support selling activities. 
  The first component, costs of sales, is directly related to sales and fluctuations in sales. However, it is also heavily influenced by product and customer mix. Because of this influence, our gross profit (the residual of net sales after deducting the related cost of sales), when stated as a percentage of net sales, generally declines as the average monthly net sales of a store increases. This is due to the mix impact of larger customers. 
  The second component, operating and administrative expenses, does just the opposite, it generally improves as a percentage of net sales. This is due to the fixed nature of our  open for business  expenses and the attractive incremental profit margin typically realized in our remaining variable expenses. The  open for business  expenses are the expenses needed to  just keep the front door open , and they relate to a base staffing level, a base facility cost, and base vehicle costs. These expenses do not generate a profit; however, they create the opportunity for future sales growth that will generate profits. This drives our  pathway to profit . 

Gross profit     The gross profit percentage in the first, second, third, and fourth quarters was as follows: 

Over the last several years our gross profit has fluctuated due to our mix of store sizes, customer sizes, products, geographies, end markets, and end market uses (such as industrial production business versus maintenance business). We have previously indicated a short-term expectation for gross profit of around 51%; however, we would expect this percentage to decline over time as our average store size grows (see discussion earlier under 'Profit Drivers of our Business' and below). As stated below,  
    32 

     Table of Contents  

   this structural gross profit change centers primarily on customer mix and, to a lesser degree, product mix. However, as discussed in the operating and administrative expenses section below, we would expect this structural change to improve operating and administrative expenses as a percentage of net sales. 
  Ignoring the long-term trend just noted, our short-term gross profit percentages historically fluctuate due to impacts related to (1) transactional gross profit (either related to product and customer mix or to freight), (2) organizational gross profit (sourcing strength that can occur as we leverage buying scale and efficiency), and (3) supplier incentive gross profit (impacts from supplier volume allowances). In the short-term, periods of inflation or deflation can influence the first two categories, while sudden changes in business volume can influence the third. The transactional gross profit, our most meaningful component, is heavily influenced by our store-based compensation programs, which are directly linked to sales growth and gross profit, and incentivize our employees to improve both. 
  An important aspect of our gross profit relates to our locations, our product mix, and our customer mix. Given the close proximity of our sales personnel to our customer s business, we offer a very high service level with our sales, which is valued by our customers and improves our gross profit. Fasteners are our highest gross profit product line given the high transaction cost surrounding the sourcing and supply of the product for our customers. Fasteners currently account for approximately 40% of our sales. We expect any reduction in the mix of our sales attributable to fasteners to negatively impact gross profit, particularly as it relates to maintenance fasteners. Gross profit is also influenced by average store sales as noted earlier in this document. Larger stores have larger customers, whose more focused buying patterns allow us to offer them better pricing. As a result, growth in average store sales is expected to negatively impact gross profit. A final item of note, our fourth quarter has typically been the season with the most challenges surrounding gross profit. This relates to the decline in sales in November and December due to the  holiday season  and due to the drop off in non-residential construction business. This drop off in sales reduces the utilization of our trucking network and can slightly reduce our gross profit. 
  During 2015, our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, decreased when compared to 2014. This decrease centered on transactional impacts driven by changes in product and customer mix. Our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, also decreased in the fourth quarter of 2015 when compared to the fourth quarter of 2014. We saw a noticeable squeezing of discretionary spending by our customers in November and December of 2015, which produced a noticeable drop in sales of less frequently purchased products. This resulted in all of the drop in gross profit when compared to the third quarter of 2015, and substantially all of the change from the fourth quarter of 2014. 
  During 2014, our gross profit dropped below 51%. The drop generally centered on transactional impacts driven by product and customer mix and our strong emphasis on growing average store sales. 
  Operating and administrative expenses   - as a percentage of sales improved from 2014 to 2015.  
  Historically, our two largest components of operating and administrative expenses have consisted of employee related expenses (approximately 65% to 70%) and occupancy related expenses (approximately 15% to 20%). The remaining expenses cover a variety of items with selling transportation typically being the largest. 
  The three largest components of operating and administrative expenses grew (or contracted) as follows for the periods ended December 31 (compared to the same periods in the preceding year): 

Employee related expenses include: (1) payroll (which includes cash compensation, stock option expense, and profit sharing), (2) health care, (3) personnel development, and (4) social taxes. The slight increase in 2015, when compared to 2014, was caused by increases in full-time equivalent headcount (see table below) and growth in our profit sharing contribution, primarily due to our expanding growth in operating income. Offsetting factors included lower performance bonuses and commissions due to the decrease in our gross profit percentage, and a focused reduction in overtime hours paid. The increase in 2014, when compared to 2013, was driven by (1) an increase in performance bonuses and commissions due to our expanding sales growth from the past year, (2) a contraction in profit sharing contribution due to lower relative profitability, and (3) an increase in health care costs. These factors, combined with an increase in full-time equivalent headcount (see table below), caused employee related costs to grow.  
    33 

     Table of Contents  

   On average, the full-time equivalent (FTE) headcount grew as follows (compared to the same period in the preceding years): 

Occupancy related expenses include: (1) building rent and depreciation, (2) building utility costs, (3) equipment related to our stores and distribution locations, and (4) industrial vending equipment (we consider the vending equipment to be a logical extension of our store operation and classify the expense as occupancy). The increase in 2015, when compared to 2014, was driven by (1) an increase in the amount of industrial vending equipment as discussed earlier in this document, and (2) an increased investment in our distribution infrastructure over the last several years, primarily related to automation. The increase in 2014, when compared to 2013, was driven by (1) an increase in the amount of industrial vending equipment as discussed earlier in this document, (2) an increase in building utility cost due to a severe winter in January and February 2014 and increases in natural gas prices during the 2014 heating season, (3) an increased investment in our distribution infrastructure over the last several years, primarily related to automation, and (4) an accrual related to store closings. In 2015 and 2014, the industrial vending component represented approximately 42% and 45%, respectively, of the increase.  
  Our selling transportation costs consist primarily of our store fleet as most of the distribution fleet costs are included in cost of sales. Selling transportation costs included in operating and administrative expenses contracted in 2015, when compared to 2014. This was driven by the decline in fuel costs (see discussion below). The growth in selling transportation costs included in operating and administrative expenses in 2014, when compared to 2013, was driven by the increase in store headcount and by a reduction in mileage per gallon associated with severe winter driving conditions.  
  The last several years have seen some variation in the cost of diesel fuel and gasoline. During the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2015, our total vehicle fuel costs were approximately $8.8 million, $9.1 million, $8.6 million, and $7.8 million, respectively. During the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2014, our total vehicle fuel costs were approximately $11.9 million, $12.5 million, $11.5 million, and $9.5 million, respectively. The changes resulted from variations in fuel costs, variations in the service levels provided to our stores from our distribution centers, changes in the number of vehicles at our store locations, changes in the number of other sales centered vehicles as a result of store openings and the expansion of our non-store sales force, and changes in driving conditions. These fuel costs include the fuel utilized in our distribution vehicles (semi-tractors, straight trucks, and sprinter trucks) which is recorded in cost of sales and the fuel utilized in our store delivery and other sales centered vehicles which is included in operating and administrative expenses (the split in the last several years has been approximately 50:50 between distribution and store and other sales centered use).  
  Income taxes         Income taxes, as a percentage of earnings before income taxes, were approximately 37.5%, 37.2%, and 37.1% for   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. The increase in our income tax rate from 2014 to 2015 was driven by an increase in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and changes in the reserve for uncertain tax positions. Our income tax rate increased slightly from 2013 to 2014. As our international business and profits grew the past several years, the lower income tax rates in those jurisdictions, relative to the United States, have lowered our effective tax rate. 
    Net earnings     Net earnings, net earnings per share (EPS), percentage change in net earnings, and the percentage change in EPS, were as follows: 

34 

     Table of Contents  

   During 2015, the net earnings increase was greater than that of sales primarily due to the effective management of operating expenses. During 2014,   the net earnings increase was less than that of sales primarily due to the reduction in the gross profit percent realized.     During 2013, the net earnings increase was greater than that of sales primarily due to the expansion in the gross profit percent realized and a slightly lower income tax rate.  
    
    CASH FLOW IMPACT ITEMS 
  Operational working capital     Operational working capital, which we define as accounts receivable, net and inventories, are highlighted below. The annual dollar change and the annual percentage change were as follows: 

The growth in net accounts receivable noted above was comparative to our sales growth in the final two months of the year. The strong growth in recent years with our international business and of our large customer accounts has created some difficulty with managing the growth of accounts receivable relative to the growth in sales.  
  Our growth in inventory balances over time does not have as direct a relationship to our monthly sales patterns as does our growth in accounts receivable. This is impacted by other aspects of our business. For example, the dramatic economic slowdown in late 2008 and early 2009 caused our inventory to spike. This occurred because the lead time for inventory procurement is typically longer than the visibility we have into future monthly sales patterns. Over the last decade, we increased our relative inventory levels due to the following: (1) new store openings, (2) expanded stocking breadth at distribution centers (for example, our master stocking hub in Indianapolis expanded its product breadth over six fold from 2005 to 2011), (3) expanded direct sourcing, (4) expanded Fastenal brands (private label), (5) expanded industrial vending solutions, (6) national accounts growth, (7) international growth, and (8) expanded stocking breadth at individual stores. While all of these items impacted both 2015 and 2014, items (3) through (8) had the greatest impact.  
  The approximate percentage mix of inventory stocked at our stores versus our distribution center locations was as follows at year end: 

New stores open with the standard store model (CSP 16), which consists of a core stocking level of approximately $60 thousand per location. This inventory level grows as the level of business in a store grows. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we began expanding the inventory offering at our existing store locations to the CSP 16 format. 
    
  As we indicated in earlier communications, our goal is to target a ratio of annual sales to accounts receivable and inventory (Annual Sales: AR I) of approximately a 3.0:1 ratio. On December 31, 2015 and 2014, we had a ratio of 2.8:1. 
  Acquisition     On October 31, 2015 we acquired certain assets of Fasteners, Inc., a regional industrial and construction supply distributor with store locations in the states of Washington, Idaho, Oregon, and Montana. The business did not have a material impact on our 2015 operating results although the all-cash acquisition had some impact on our current assets and cash flow. The acquisition is not expected to have a material impact on our overall net sales in 2016. 
      
    35 

     Table of Contents  

   Liquidity and Capital Resources: 
  Net cash provided by operating activities     Net cash provided by operating activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: 

In 2015, the increase in the net cash provided by operating activities was driven by growth in net earnings, and a decrease in the cash required to fund our net working capital, which includes accounts receivable and inventory changes. This was partially offset by an increase in cash paid for income taxes. In 2014, the increase in the net cash provided by operating activities was primarily due to increases in net earnings. 
  Net cash used in investing activities     Net cash used in investing activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: 

The changes in net cash used in investing activities were primarily related to changes in our net capital expenditures as discussed below and cash paid for acquisitions in 2015 and 2014.  
  Net capital expenditures (purchases of property and equipment, less proceeds from the sale of property and equipment) in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: 

Our net capital expenditures decreased in both 2015 and 2014. This was largely related to the completion of distribution automation projects in process during 2014 and 2013. 
  Property and equipment expenditures in   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   consist of: (1) purchase of software and hardware for Fastenal s information processing systems, (2) addition of certain pickup trucks, (3) purchase of signage, shelving, and other fixed assets related to store openings, (4) addition of manufacturing and warehouse equipment, (5) expansion or improvement of certain owned or leased store properties, (6) expansion of Fastenal s distribution/trucking fleet, (7) purchases related to industrial vending, which primarily consists of automated vending equipment and construction of a new centralized distribution facility (2014 and 2013), and (8) costs related to enhancements to distribution centers with existing automation (2015, 2014, and 2013), and the expansion of our distribution centers in High Point, North Carolina (2015), Modesto, California (2014), Scranton, Pennsylvania (2014 and 2013), Kitchener, Ontario, Canada (2014 and 2013), Akron, Ohio (2013), Atlanta, Georgia (2013), and Indianapolis, Indiana (2013). Disposals of property and equipment consist of the planned disposition of certain pick-up trucks, semi-tractors, and trailers in the normal course of business, and the disposition of real estate relating to several store locations (2015, 2014, and 2013) and a distribution center (2015). 
    36 

     Table of Contents  

   Set forth below is an estimate of our   2016   net capital expenditures and a recap of our   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   net capital expenditures. 

We anticipate funding our current expansion plans with cash generated from operations, from available cash and cash equivalents, and from our borrowing capacity. Because of the considerable cash needed to expand our industrial vending business, to increase the use of automation in our distribution centers, and to fund purchases of our common stock and dividends, we increased our borrowing under our   $700,000   unsecured revolving credit facility. The credit facility has an expiration date of   March 1, 2018  . 
  The borrowings under the credit facility peaked during each quarter as follows:  

As of December 31, 2015, we had loans outstanding under the credit facility of   $350,000   and undrawn letters of credit outstanding under the credit facility in an aggregate face amount of   $36,266  . 
  We have future commitments for facilities and equipment and for vehicles at year end. The facility and vehicle amounts primarily consist of future payments under operating leases. The expected future cash obligations related to the commitments are as follows: 

Net cash used in financing activities     Net cash used in financing activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: 

37 

     Table of Contents  

   The fluctuations in net cash used in financing activities are due to changes in the level of our dividend payments and in the level of common stock purchases. These amounts were partially offset by the exercise of stock options and the related tax impact, and net borrowings under the credit facility. These items in dollars and as a percentage of earnings were as follows: 

Cash Commitments     The portion of debt outstanding under our credit facility classified as long-term, and the maturity of that debt, is described later in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Unremitted Foreign Earnings     Approximately $94,000 of cash and cash equivalents are held by non-U.S. subsidiaries. These funds may create foreign currency translation gains or losses depending on the functional currency of the entity holding the cash. There are no significant restrictions that would preclude us from bringing the majority of these funds back to the U.S. The income tax impact of repatriating cash associated with certain undistributed earnings is discussed in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Stock Purchases     During 2015, we purchased 7,100,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $41.26 per share. During 2014, we purchased 1,200,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $44.12 per share. During 2013, we purchased 200,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $45.40 per share. 
  Dividends     We declared a quarterly dividend of   $0.30   per share on   January 14, 2016  . We paid aggregate annual dividends per share of   $1.12  , $  1.00  , and $  0.80   in   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. 
  Line of Credit     A description of our credit facility is contained in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Effects of Inflation     We experienced some deflation in our fastener products and minimal price movements in our non-fastener products in   2015   and   2014  , with the net impact being a slight drag on growth.  
    Critical Accounting Policies     Our accounting policies related to certain assets and liabilities are an integral part of our consolidated financial statements. These policies are considered critical because they require application of assumptions and judgments based on historical trends and the composition of account balances. Although we believe our reserves are adequate, the results could be materially different if our assumptions and historical trends do not reflect actual results. 
  Allowance for doubtful accounts     This reserve is for accounts receivable balances that are potentially uncollectible. The reserve is based on an analysis of customer accounts and our historical experience with accounts receivable write-offs. The analysis includes the aging of accounts receivable, the financial condition of a customer or industry, and general economic conditions. Historically, results have reflected the reserves previously recorded.  
  Inventory reserves     The reserves are for potentially obsolete or excess inventory and shrinkage. The reserves are based on an analysis of inventory trends. The analysis includes inventory levels, sales information, physical inventory counts, cycle count adjustments, and the on-hand quantities relative to the sales history for the product. Historically, results have reflected the reserves previously recorded.  
    38 

     Table of Contents  

Insurance reserves     These reserves are for general claims related to workers  compensation, property and casualty losses, health claims, and other self-insured losses. The reserves are based on an analysis of external data related to our historical claim trends. Historically, results have reflected the reserves previously recorded.  
  New Accounting Pronouncements 
  A description of new accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Geographic Information 
  Information regarding our revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area is contained in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Risks related to our foreign operations are described earlier in this Form 10-K under the heading 'Forward-Looking Statements' and 'Item 1A. Risk Factors'. 
             ITEM 7A. 
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS 
     We are exposed to certain market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity steel pricing, commodity energy prices, and interest rates. Changes in these factors cause fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows. We evaluate and manage exposure to these market risks as follows: 
  Foreign currency exchange rates     Foreign currency fluctuations can affect our net investments and earnings denominated in foreign currencies. Our primary exchange rate exposure is with the Canadian dollar against the United States dollar. Our estimated net earnings exposure for foreign currency exchange rates was not material at year end. 
  Commodity steel pricing     We buy and sell various types of steel products; these products consist primarily of different types of threaded fasteners. In 2013, 2014, and 2015, we noted some deflation in overall steel pricing. We are exposed to the impacts of commodity steel pricing and our related ability to pass through the impacts to our end customers. 
  Commodity energy prices     We have market risk for changes in prices of gasoline, diesel fuel, natural gas, and electricity; however, this risk is mitigated in part by our ability to pass freight costs to our customers, the efficiency of our trucking distribution network, and the ability, over time, to manage our occupancy costs related to the heating and cooling of our facilities through better efficiency. 
  Interest rates   - Loans under our credit facility bear interest at floating rates tied to LIBOR. As a result, changes in LIBOR can affect our operating results and liquidity to the extent we do not have effective interest rate swap arrangements in place. We have not historically used interest rate swap arrangements to hedge the variable interest rates under our credit facility. However, due to the relatively small size of our debt, we do not believe our operations are currently subject to significant market risk for interest rate exposure under the credit facility. A description of our credit facility is contained in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
    39 

       Table of Contents  

            ITEM 8. 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Fastenal Company: 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Fastenal Company and subsidiaries as of December 31,   2015   and   2014  , and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,   2015  . In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule listed in the table of contents at Item 15. We also have audited the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2015  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Fastenal Company s management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule and an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Fastenal Company and subsidiaries as of December 31,   2015   and   2014  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,   2015  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also in our opinion, Fastenal Company and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2015  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by COSO. 
    
  /s/    KPMG LLP 
  Minneapolis, Minnesota 
  February 5, 2016    
    
    40 

       Table of Contents  

   FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  (Amounts in thousands except share information) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    41 

       Table of Contents  

   FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Statements of Earnings 
  (Amounts in thousands except earnings per share) 
  For the year ended December 31 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    42 

       Table of Contents  

   FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
  (Amounts in thousands) 
  For the year ended December 31 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

43 

     Table of Contents  

   FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity 
  (Amounts in thousands) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    44 

       Table of Contents  

   FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  (Amounts in thousands) 
  For the year ended December 31 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    45 

       Table of Contents  

   Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
    Note 1. Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  Business Overview 
  Fastenal is a leader in the wholesale distribution of industrial and construction supplies operating a store-based business with approximately   2,600   locations. These locations are primarily in North America. 
  Principles of Consolidation 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Fastenal Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as  Fastenal  or by terms such as  we ,  our , or  us ). All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
  Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable 
  Net sales include products, services, and shipping and handling charges billed, net of any related sales incentives, and net of an estimate for product returns. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title and risk of ownership have passed, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. These criteria are met at the time the product is shipped to or picked up by the customer. We recognize services at the time the service is completed and product is provided to the customer. We recognize revenue for shipping and handling charges billed at the time the products are shipped to or picked up by the customer. We estimate product returns based on historical return rates. Accounts receivable are stated at their estimated net realizable value. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on an analysis of customer accounts and our historical experience with accounts receivable write-offs. Sales taxes (and value added taxes in foreign jurisdictions) collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are accounted for on a net basis and therefore are excluded from net sales. 
  Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions 
  The functional currency of our foreign operations is typically the applicable local currency. The functional currency is translated into United States dollars for balance sheet accounts, except retained earnings, using current exchange rates as of the balance sheet date, for retained earnings at historical exchange rates, and for revenue and expense accounts using a weighted average exchange rate during the period. The translation adjustments are deferred as a separate component of stockholders  equity captioned accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income. Gains or losses resulting from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are included in operating and administrative expenses. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  We consider all investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 
  Financial Instruments and Marketable Securities 
  All financial instruments are carried at amounts that approximate fair value. The fair value is the price at which an asset could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. Assets measured at fair value are categorized based upon the lowest level of significant input to the valuations. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs based upon our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value. In determining fair value we use observable market data when available. 
  Due to the varying short-term cash needs of our business, we periodically have available-for-sale marketable securities. We did not have any marketable securities as of December 31,   2015   or December 31,   2014  . Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value based on current market value. Unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings but are included in comprehensive income and are reported as a separate component of stockholders  equity until realized, unless a decline in the market value of any available-for-sale security is below cost, then the amount is deemed other than temporary and is charged to net earnings, resulting in the establishment of a new cost basis for the security. 
    46 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Inventories 
  Inventories, consisting of finished goods merchandise held for resale, are stated at the lower of cost (first in, first out method) or market. 
  Property and Equipment 
  Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation on property and equipment is provided for using the straight-line method over the anticipated economic useful lives of the related property. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If circumstances require a long-lived asset or asset group be tested for possible impairment, we first compare undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the long-lived asset or asset group is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, an impairment is recognized to the extent the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques including discounted cash flow models, quoted market values, and third-party independent appraisals, as considered necessary. There were no impairments recorded during any of the three years reported in these consolidated financial statements. 
  Leases 
  We lease space under operating leases for certain distribution centers, stores, and manufacturing locations. These leases do not have significant rent escalation holidays, concessions, leasehold improvement incentives, or other build-out clauses. Any such terms are recognized as rent expense over the term of the lease. Further, the leases do not contain contingent rent provisions. Leasehold improvements on operating leases are amortized over their estimated service lives on a straight-line basis, or the remaining lease term, whichever is shorter. We lease certain semi-tractors, pick-ups, and equipment under operating leases. 
  Other Long-Lived Assets 
  Other assets consist of prepaid deposits, goodwill, non-compete agreements, and other related intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually. The non-compete and related intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated life. 
  Accounting Estimates 
  The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reported period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
  Insurance Reserves 
  We are self-insured for certain losses relating to medical, dental, workers  compensation, and other casualty losses. Specific stop loss coverage is provided for catastrophic claims in order to limit exposure to significant claims. Losses and claims are charged to operations when it is probable a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed but unpaid and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. 
  Product Warranties 
  We offer a basic limited warranty for certain of our products. The specific terms and conditions of those warranties vary depending upon the product sold. We typically recoup these costs through product warranties we hold with the original equipment manufacturers. Our warranty expense has historically been minimal. 
  Stock-Based Compensation 
  We estimate the value of stock option grants using a Black-Scholes valuation model. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Our stock-based compensation expense is recorded in operating and administrative expenses.  
  We report the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized stock-based compensation as cash flows from financing activities, thereby reducing net cash flows from operating activities and increasing net cash flows from financing activities.  
    
    47 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Income Taxes 
  We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.    
  We recognize the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are more likely than not to be sustained. Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized. Changes in recognition or measurement are reflected in the period in which the change in judgment occurs. We record interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. 
  Earnings Per Share 
  Basic net earnings per share is calculated using net earnings available to common stockholders divided by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year. Diluted net earnings per share is similar to basic net earnings per share except that the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding includes the incremental shares assumed to be issued upon the exercise of stock options considered to be  in-the-money  (i.e. when the market price of our stock is greater than the exercise price of our outstanding stock options). 
  Segment Reporting 
  We have determined that we meet the aggregation criteria outlined in the accounting standards as our various operations have similar (1) economic characteristics, (2) products and services, (3) customers, (4) distribution channels, and (5) regulatory environments. Therefore, we report as a single business segment. 
    48 

       Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Note 2. Long-Lived Assets 
  Property and equipment 
  Property and equipment at year end consisted of the following: 

Note 3. Accrued Expenses 
  Accrued expenses at year end consisted of the following: 

Note 4. Stockholders  Equity 
  Our authorized, issued, and outstanding shares (stated in whole numbers) at year end consisted of the following: 

Dividends 
  On   January 14, 2016  , our board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of   $0.30   per share of common stock to be paid in cash on   February 26, 2016   to shareholders of record at the close of business on   January 29, 2016  . We paid aggregate annual dividends per share of   $1.12  ,   $1.00  , and   $0.80   in   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively.  
    
    49 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Stock Purchases 
  Subsequent to December 31, 2015, we have purchased   1,600,000   shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately   $37.15   per share. 
  Stock Options 
  The following tables summarize the details of grants made under our stock option plan that are still outstanding, and the assumptions used to value these grants. All options granted were effective at the close of business on the date of grant. 

All of the options in the tables above vest and become exercisable over a period of up to   eight   years. Generally, each option will terminate approximately   nine years   after the grant date. 
  The fair value of each share-based option is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes valuation method that uses the assumptions listed above. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life of the option at the time of grant. The expected life is the average length of time over which we expect the employee groups will exercise their options, which is based on historical experience with similar grants. The dividend yield is estimated over the expected life of the option based on our current dividend payout, historical dividends paid, and expected future cash dividends. Expected stock volatilities are based on the movement of our stock over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life of the option. 
    50 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

A summary of the activity under our stock option plan is as follows: 

(1)     Weighted average exercise price. 
   (2)     Weighted average remaining contractual life in years. 
  The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the years ended   December 31, 2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   was   $14,174  ,   $7,466  , and   $9,925  , respectively. The intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price and fair value of the underlying shares at the date of exercise.  
  At   December 31, 2015  , there was   $15,073   of total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to outstanding unvested stock options granted under the plan. This expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   4.60   years. Any future change in estimated forfeitures will impact this amount. The total grant date fair value of stock options vesting under our stock option plan during   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   was   $5,143  ,   $7,287  , and   $3,508  , respectively. 
  Total stock-based compensation expense related to our stock option plan was   $5,841  ,   $7,039  , and   $5,400   for   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. 
  Earnings Per Share 
  The following tables present a reconciliation of the denominators used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share and a summary of the options to purchase shares of common stock which were excluded from the diluted earnings calculation because they were anti-dilutive: 

Any dilutive impact summarized above related to periods when the average market price of our stock exceeded the exercise price of the potentially dilutive options then outstanding. 
    51 

       Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Note 5. Retirement Savings Plan 
  The Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 401(k) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan covers all of our employees in the United States. Our employees in Canada may participate in a Registered Retirement Savings Plan. The general purpose of both of these plans is to provide additional financial security during retirement by providing employees with an incentive to make regular savings. In addition to the contributions of our employees, we make a profit sharing contribution on an annual basis based on an established formula. Our contribution expense under this profit sharing formula was approximately   $13,669  ,   $11,460  , and   $12,211   for   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. 
    
    Note 6. Income Taxes 
  Earnings before income taxes were derived from the following sources: 

Components of income tax expense (benefit) were as follows: 

Income tax expense in the accompanying consolidated financial statements differed from the expected expense as follows: 

52 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities at year end were as follows:    

In November 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued ASU 2015-17,   Income Taxes (Topic 740),   to simplify the presentation of deferred income taxes. Under the new standard, both deferred tax liabilities and assets are required to be classified as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. This standard will become effective for fiscal years, and the interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2016, with early adoption allowed. As of December 31, 2014, we had deferred taxes that were classified as current assets and noncurrent liabilities. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we elected to prospectively adopt this standard, thus reclassifying   $23,300   of current deferred tax assets to noncurrent (netted within noncurrent liabilities) on the accompanying consolidated balance sheet. The prior reporting period was not retrospectively adjusted. The adoption of this guidance had no impact on our Consolidated Statements of Earnings and Comprehensive Income. 
  A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of total gross unrecognized tax benefits was as follows: 

Included in the liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits is an immaterial amount for interest and penalties, both of which we classify as a component of income tax expense. The amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits that would favorably impact the effective tax rate, if recognized, is not material. 
  Fastenal files income tax returns in the United States federal jurisdiction, all states, and various local and foreign jurisdictions. With limited exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations by taxing authorities for taxable years before 2012 in the case of United States federal and foreign examinations and 2011 in the case of state and local examinations. 
  In general, it is our practice and intention to permanently reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and repatriate earnings only when the tax impact is zero or very minimal. As of   December 31, 2015  , we have not made a provision for United States income taxes or for additional foreign withholding taxes on   $140,000   of unremitted earnings. Generally, such amounts become subject to United States taxation upon the remittance of dividends and under certain other circumstances. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of deferred income tax liabilities related to investments in these foreign subsidiaries.  
      
    53 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Note 7. Geographic Information 
  Our revenues and long-lived assets related to the following geographic areas: 

The accounting policies of the operations in the various geographic areas are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. Long-lived assets consist of property and equipment, deposits, goodwill, and other intangibles. Revenues are attributed to countries based on the location of the store from which the sale occurred.   No   single customer represents more than 5% of our consolidated net sales. 
     Note 8. Operating Leases 
  We lease space under non-cancelable operating leases for several distribution centers, several manufacturing locations, and certain store locations. These leases do not have significant rent escalation holidays, concessions, leasehold improvement incentives, or other build-out clauses. Any such terms are recognized as rent expense over the term of the lease. Further, the leases do not contain contingent rent provisions. The net book value of leasehold improvements at   December 31, 2015   was   $2,858  . We lease certain semi-tractors and pick-ups under operating leases. Future minimum annual rentals for the leased facilities and equipment, and the leased vehicles, are as follows: 

Rent expense under all operating leases was as follows: 

Certain operating leases for pick-up trucks contain residual value guarantee provisions which would generally become due at the expiration of the operating lease agreement if the fair value of the leased vehicles is less than the guaranteed residual value. The aggregate residual value guarantee related to these leases was approximately   $61,304  . We believe the likelihood of funding the guarantee obligation under any provision of the operating lease agreements is remote other than where we have established an accrual for estimated losses, which was immaterial at   December 31, 2015  . To the extent our fleet contains vehicles we estimate will settle at a gain, such gains on these vehicles will be recognized when we sell the vehicle. 
    54 

       Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Note 9. Debt Commitments and Contingencies 
  Credit Facility, Note, and Commitments 
  Debt obligations and undrawn letters of credit outstanding at year-end were as follows: 

Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility 
  We have a   $700,000   unsecured revolving credit facility ('Credit Facility'). The Credit Facility includes a committed letter of credit subfacility of   $55,000  . The commitments under the Credit Facility will expire (and any borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility will become due and payable) on   March 1, 2018  . In the next twelve months, we have the ability and intent to repay a portion of the outstanding line of credit obligations using cash; therefore, we have classified this portion of the line of credit as a current liability. The Credit Facility contains certain financial and other covenants, and our right to borrow under the Credit Facility is conditioned upon, among other things, our compliance with these covenants. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. 
  Borrowings under the Credit Facility generally bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate ('LIBOR') for interest periods of various lengths selected by us, plus   0.95%  . A change in LIBOR impacts the interest rate on our borrowings, which in turn impacts interest expense incurred and cash flows. Based on the interest periods we have chosen, our weighted per annum interest rate at   December 31, 2015   was approximately   1.4%  . We pay a commitment fee for the unused portion of the Credit Facility. This fee is either   0.10%   or   0.125%   per annum based on our usage of the Credit Facility. 
  Note 
  On December 7, 2015, we signed an agreement to acquire, effective January 2, 2017, certain assets related to the collection and management of certain portions of our business and financial data from Apex Industrial Technologies, LLC ('Apex'), a provider of automated point-of-use dispensing and supply chain technologies. The agreement includes a transition arrangement which requires us to assume responsibility for certain software that is licensed by Apex assuming that hosting services are transitioned from Apex to us. The total consideration for the assets and transition arrangement is   $27,000  , of which   $12,000   was paid in cash in December 2015 to cover costs associated with decoupling systems and programs, transition planning expenses, completing system enhancements, and engaging in training to effectively and efficiently transfer hosting activities to us. The remaining   $15,000   is payable pursuant to an unsecured note and covers equipment costs and post transfer expenses related to the transition. Payment of the   $15,000   is dependent upon the transfer of hosting activities to us. We also reserve the right to terminate the transition of hosting services from Apex to us and, if we decide to exercise that option, then we will not be required to make the   $15,000   payment and Apex will continue to provide us with fee-based hosting services. The note bears interest at an annual rate of   0.56%  . Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the note is due and payable on the last day of each calendar quarter, commencing on December 31, 2015. The   $12,000   payment is included in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for 2015, as net cash used in investing activities in 'Other', and the   $15,000   note represents a non-cash investing and financing activity. 
  Annual maturities of the note are as follows: 

55 

       Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Legal Contingencies 
  We are involved in certain legal actions. The outcomes of these legal actions are not within our complete control and may not be known for prolonged periods of time. In some actions, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, that could require significant expenditures or result in lost revenues. We record a liability for these legal actions when a loss is known or considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a known or probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other, the minimum amount of the range is accrued. If a loss is reasonably possible but not known or probable, and can be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss or range of loss is disclosed. In most cases, significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of a loss to be recorded. As of   December 31, 2015  , there were no litigation matters that we consider to be probable or reasonably possible to have a material adverse outcome. 
    Note 10. Sales by Product Line 
  The percentages of our net sales by product line were as follows: 

(1)    Fastener product line represents fasteners and miscellaneous supplies. 
   (2)    We do not sell welding gases. 
   (3)    The safety supplies product line has expanded, as a percentage of sales, in the last several years due to our industrial vending program. 
   (4)    Direct ship represents a cross section of products from the remaining product lines. The items included here represent certain items with historically low margins which are shipped directly from our distribution channel to our customers, bypassing our store network. 
    Note 11. Subsequent Events 
  We evaluated all subsequent event activity and concluded that no subsequent events have occurred that would require recognition in the consolidated financial statements or disclosure in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, with the exception of the dividend declaration and stock purchases disclosed in Note 4. 
    Note 12. New Accounting Pronouncements 
  In July 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2015-11,   Simplifying the Measurement of Inventory   which changes the measurement principle for inventory for entities using first-in, first-out (FIFO) or average cost from the lower of cost or market to lower of cost and net realizable value. This standard defines net realizable value as estimated selling prices in the ordinary course of business less reasonably predictable costs of completion, disposal, and transportation. The guidance is effective for reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and interim periods within those fiscal years with early adoption permitted. This standard should be applied prospectively. We are evaluating the impact of the future adoption of this standard, but we do not expect the adoption to have a material effect on our consolidated financial statements. 
    56 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date (ASU 2015-14),   which defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 for all entities by one year. This update is effective for public business entities for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those reporting periods. Earlier application is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. ASU 2014-09 was to become effective for us beginning January 2017. ASU 2015-14 defers our effective date until January 2018. We are evaluating the impact this ASU will have on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We have not yet selected a transition method nor have we determined the effect of the standard on our ongoing financial reporting. 
  In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17,   Income Taxes (Topic 740),   to simplify the presentation of deferred income taxes. During the fourth quarter of 2015, we elected to prospectively adopt this standard. Additional information regarding our adoption of this standard is contained in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    Note 13. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
  (Amounts in thousands except per share information) 

***End of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements*** 
    57 

       Table of Contents  

ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
     None. 
    
             ITEM 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
     Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  As of the end of the period covered by this report, we conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the 'Securities Exchange Act')). Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
    58 

     Table of Contents  

   Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The attestation report required under this item is contained earlier in this Form 10-K under the heading 'Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data'. 
  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. The Company s internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: 
           (i) 
    pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 
              (ii) 
    provide reasonable assurance that the transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 
              (iii) 
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Under the supervision of our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2015  . There was no change in the Company s internal control over financial reporting during the Company s most recently completed fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/    Daniel L. Florness 
      
    /s/    Sheryl A. Lisowski 
      Daniel L. Florness 
      
    Sheryl A. Lisowski 
      President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Interim Chief Financial Officer, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer 

Winona, Minnesota 

February 5, 2016 

ITEM 9B. 
    OTHER INFORMATION 
     None. 
    59 

       Table of Contents  

   PART III 
    
             ITEM 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings 'Proposal #1   Election of Directors', 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Board Leadership Structure and Committee Membership', 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Audit Committee', and 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance' in the Proxy Statement. See also Part I hereof under the heading 'Item X. Executive Officers of the Registrant'. 
  There have been no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to the board of directors since our last report. 
  In January 2004, our board of directors adopted a supplement to our existing standards of conduct designed to qualify the standards of conduct as a code of ethics within the meaning of Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC ('Code of Ethics'). The standards of conduct, as supplemented, apply to all of our directors, officers, and employees, including without limitation our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller (if any), and persons performing similar functions ('Senior Financial Officers'). Those portions of the standards of conduct, as supplemented, that constitute a required element of a Code of Ethics are available without charge by submitting a request to us pursuant to the directions detailed under 'Does Fastenal have a Code of Conduct?' on the 'Investor FAQs' page of the 'Investors' section of our website at   www.fastenal.com  . In the event we amend or waive any portion of the standards of conduct, as supplemented, that constitutes a required element of a Code of Ethics and such amendment or waiver applies to any of our Senior Financial Officers, we intend to post on our website, within four business days after the date of such amendment or waiver, a brief description of such amendment or waiver, the name of each Senior Financial Officer to whom the amendment or waiver applies, and the date of the amendment or waiver. 
    
             ITEM 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation', 'Executive Compensation', and 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Compensation of our Directors' in the Proxy Statement. 
             ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the heading  Security Ownership of Principal Shareholders and Management  in the Proxy Statement. 
  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
                         Plan Category 
    Number of Securities to 
  be Issued Upon Exercise 
  of Outstanding Options, 
  Warrants, and Rights 
      
    Weighted-Average Exercise 
  Price of Outstanding 
  Options, Warrants, and 
  Rights 
      
    Number of Securities 
  Remaining Available for 
  Future Issuance Under 
  Equity Compensation 
  Plans (Excluding 
  Securities Reflected in 
  Column (a)) 
        
    (a) 
      
    (b) 
      
    (c) 
      Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
    4,530,982 
      
    $41.49 
      
    6,120,700 
      Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 

Total 
    4,530,982 

6,120,700 

ITEM 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings  Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Director Independence and Other Board Matters ,  Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Related Person Transaction Approval Policy , and  Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Transactions with Related Persons  in the Proxy Statement. 
             ITEM 14. 
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the heading  Audit and Related Matters Audit and Related Fees  and  Audit and Related Matters Pre-Approval of Services  in the Proxy Statement. 
    60 

       Table of Contents  

   PART IV 
    
             ITEM 15. 
    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
                    a) 
    1. Financial Statements: 

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31,   2015   and   2014    
  Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity for the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  2. Financial Statement Schedules: 
  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
  3. Exhibits: 
                 3.1 
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal Company, as amended effective as of April 17, 2012 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Fastenal Company s Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012) 

3.2 
    Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Fastenal Company s Form 8-K dated as of October 15, 2010 (file no. 000-16125)) 

10.1 
    Description of Bonus Arrangements for Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to the information appearing under the heading  Executive Compensation   Compensation Discussion and Analysis  in the Proxy Statement)* 

10.2 
    Fastenal Company Stock Option Plan as amended and restated effective as of December 12, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Fastenal Company s Form 8-K dated December 17, 2014)* 

10.3 
    Fastenal Company Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to Fastenal Company s Proxy Statement dated February 23, 2012)* 

10.4 
    Credit Agreement dated as of May 1, 2015 among Fastenal Company, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Swingline Lender and Issuing Lender (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 8-K dated May 5, 2015), as amended by the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of November 23, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 8-K dated November 25, 2015) 

13 
    Portions of 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders not included in this Form 10-K (only those sections specifically incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K shall be deemed filed with the SEC) 

21 
    List of Subsidiaries 

23 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

31 
    Certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

32 
    Certification under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 

101 
    The following materials formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

We will furnish copies of these Exhibits upon request and payment of our reasonable expenses in furnishing the Exhibits. 
  * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b). 
    61 

       Table of Contents  

   FASTENAL COMPANY 
  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
  Years ended December 31,   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  (Amounts in thousands) 

(1)     Includes costs and expenses incurred for premiums and claims related to health and general insurance. 
   (2)     Includes costs and expenses paid for premiums and claims related to health and general insurance. 
  See accompanying Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm incorporated herein by reference. 
    62 

       Table of Contents  

   SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
    
                   Date: 
      
    February 5, 2016 
        
      FASTENAL COMPANY 

By 
      
    /s/    Daniel L. Florness 

Daniel L. Florness, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 

/s/    Daniel L. Florness 

/s/    Sheryl A. Lisowski 
      Daniel L. Florness, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer), and Director 

Sheryl A. Lisowski, Interim Chief Financial Officer, Controller, and Chief Accounting Officer (Principal Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/    Willard D. Oberton 

/s/    Rita J. Heise 
      Willard D. Oberton, Director (Chairman) 

Rita J. Heise, Director 

/s/    Michael J. Ancius 

/s/    Darren R. Jackson 
      Michael J. Ancius, Director 

Darren R. Jackson, Director 

/s/    Michael J. Dolan 

/s/    Hugh L. Miller 
      Michael J. Dolan, Director 

Hugh L. Miller, Director 

/s/    Stephen L. Eastman 

/s/    Scott A. Satterlee 
      Stephen L. Eastman, Director 

Scott A. Satterlee, Director 

/s/    Leland J. Hein 

/s/    Reyne K. Wisecup 
      Leland J. Hein, Director 

Reyne K. Wisecup, Director 

63 

       Table of Contents  

   INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
    
                   3.1 
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal Company, as amended 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      3.2 
    Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.1 
    Description of Bonus Arrangements for Executive Officers 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.2 
    Fastenal Company Stock Option Plan as amended and restated effective as of December 12, 2014 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.3 
    Fastenal Company Incentive Plan 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.4 
    Credit Agreement dated as of May 1, 2015 among Fastenal Company, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Swingline Lender and Issuing Lender, as amended by the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of November 23, 2015 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      13 
    Portions of 2015 Annual Report to Shareholders not included in this Form 10-K (only those sections specifically incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K shall be deemed filed with the SEC) 
    Electronically Filed 
      21 
    List of Subsidiaries 
    Electronically Filed 
      23 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    Electronically Filed 
      31 
    Certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    Electronically Filed 
      32 
    Certification under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document 
    Electronically Filed 

64 

<EX-13>
 2
 a2015annualreportcoverpa.htm
 PORTIONS OF 2015 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS NOT INCLUDED IN THIS FORM 10-K

a2015annualreportcoverpa  

2015   ANNUAL    REPO   RT   9704582 2015 Annual Report  |  1.16KM  |  Printed in the USA   ANNUAL   REPORT2015     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ANNUAL REPORT   MICHAEL J. DOLAN   Self-Employed Business Consultant,   Retired Executive Vice President and    Chief Operating Officer,    The Smead Manufacturing Company   GARY A. POLIPNICK   Executive Vice President -    FAST Solutions    SCOTT A. SATTERLEE   Retired President of North America   Surface Transportation Division, C.H.   Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (logistics and   distribution company)   JAMES C. JANSEN   Executive Vice President - Manufacturing   LELAND J. HEIN   Senior Executive Vice President - Sales   NICHOLAS J. LUNDQUIST   Executive Vice President - Operations   CHARLES S. MILLER   Executive Vice President - Sales   RITA J. HEISE   Self-Employed Business Consultant,   Retired Corporate Vice President and   Chief Information Officer of    Cargill, Incorporated   LELAND J. HEIN   SHERYL A. LISOWSKI   Interim Chief Financial Officer, Controller,   and Chief Accounting Officer   STEPHEN L. EASTMAN   President of the Parts, Garments,    and Accessories Division of    Polaris Industries Inc.   (recreational vehicle manufacturer)   DANIEL L. FLORNESS   President and Chief Executive Officer   DANIEL L. FLORNESS   HUGH L. MILLER   President and Chief Executive Officer,   RTP Company (thermoplastics materials   manufacturer)   REYNE K. WISECUP   REYNE K. WISECUP   Executive Vice President -    Human Resources   DARREN R. JACKSON   Retired Chief Executive Officer, Advance   Auto Parts, Inc. (auto parts company)   ASHOK SINGH   Executive Vice President -    Information Technology   WILLARD D. OBERTON   Chairman of the Board, Retired President   and Chief Executive Officer,    Fastenal Company   MICHAEL J. ANCIUS   Director of Strategic Planning, Financing,    and Taxation, Kwik Trip, Inc.    (retail convenience store operator)   21CO   UN   TR   IES    WIT   H FASTENAL STORES   DIRECTOR   S   EXECUTIVE OFFICER   S TERRY M. OWEN   Senior Executive Vice President -    Sales Operations   JOHN L. SODERBERG   Executive Vice President -    Sales Operations and Support   ANNUAL   MEETING   FORM   10-K   LEGAL   COUNSEL   HOME   OFFICE   TRANSFER   AGENT   INDEPENDENT   REGISTERED PUBLIC   ACCOUNTING FIRM   The annual meeting of shareholders   will be held at 10:00 a.m., central   time, April 19, 2016, at our home   office located at 2001 Theurer   Boulevard, Winona, Minnesota.   A copy of our 2015 Annual Report   on Form 10-K to the Securities and   Exchange Commission is available   without charge to shareholders   upon written request to internal   audit at the address of our home   office listed on this page.   Copies of our latest press releases,   unaudited supplemental company   information, and monthly sales   information are available at:   http://investor.fastenal.com.   Faegre Baker Daniels LLP   Minneapolis, Minnesota   Streater   Murphy, PA   Winona, Minnesota   Fastenal Company   2001 Theurer Boulevard   Winona, Minnesota 55987-0978   Phone:  (507) 454-5374   Fax:  (507) 453-8049   Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.   Minneapolis, Minnesota   KPMG LLP   Minneapolis, Minnesota   CORPOR   ATE INFORM   ATIO   N   $3.9 BILLIO   N   $516 MILLIO   N   NET SALE   S   NET EARNING   S   TABLE OF CONTENTS   1-3 Letter to Shareholders   4-5 10-Year Selected Financial    Data   Financial Highlights   6 Stock and Financial Data   7 Stock Performance Highlights   8 Key Growth Drivers   9 Form 10-K   INSIDE   BACK   COVER   Directors   Executive Officers   Corporate Information   55,000   +   VENDING MACHINES INSTALLED   DAILY SALES   GROWTH TO    CUSTOMERS   WITH VENDING   NO. OF FASTENAL SCHOOL OF   BUSINESS COURSE COMPLETIONS   487,095   ONSITE   LOCATIONS   264   STORES   2,622   INVENTORY VALUE   $913 MILLION   NO. OF ORDERS PROCESSED   35,064,013   20,746   EMPLOYEES   118,000+   EMPLOYEE SAFETY   COACHING, TRAINING,     INSPECTION EVENTS   FASTENAL AT AGLANCE   135MILLIONMILES DELIVERED 783DELIVEREDMILLION POUNDS   36,000+   BIN STOCKS   ACTIVE   6.4%     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT   1   LETTER TO   SHAREHOLDERS   From our perspective 2015 was a disappointing year. Our net sales   grew 3.6%, our pre-tax earnings grew 4.9%, our net earnings   grew 4.5%, and our net earnings per share (EPS) grew 6.0%, the   latter helped by our buyback of approximately 7 million shares of   outstanding stock.   There is more to the story. The growth of our business (measured   in net sales) weakened as we progressed through the year. In   the first quarter we grew 8.8%, but our growth slid to 5.0% in   the second quarter, reflecting a dramatic drop in the price of oil   and a corresponding drop in our business with customers tied   to the oil and gas industry. Demand continued to weaken in the   latter half of the year, within and beyond the oil and gas sector. In   September our daily sales growth went negative, and we finished   the year with four negative months. In short, it was a tough year   for our customers, and we will only succeed to the extent our   customers succeed.   To put this challenging environment in perspective, we analyzed   the trends of our top 100 customers. Because we are a significant   supplier to each of these customers, we believe this group is a good    proxy  for our business activities in general. Over the last four years   (2011 to 2014), the typical ratio of growth versus contraction in sales   to our top-100 customers was 3:1 (75 grew and 25 contracted).   This pattern continued in the first quarter of 2015; however, by the   fourth quarter the ratio was at parity (49 grew and 51 contracted).   A second view centers on the magnitude of contraction. In a typical   quarter, sales to about half of the 25 contracting customers (or about   13%) will contract more than 10%, and approximately half of these   customers (or about 6%) will contract more than 25%. Our data in   the first quarter of 2015 was largely in line with this trend; however,   by the fourth quarter 37% were contracting more than 10% (nearly   three times the norm) and 21% were contracting more than 25%   (also about three times the norm).   We believe understanding this information is useful for maintaining   a sense of calm and perspective during a weakening period like   2015. It s also a reminder to everyone in our company of our   mission to our customers   when they re struggling, we need to   focus our energy on providing even more ideas for savings and   improvements. On the flip side, this information has no relevance   to our market opportunity or the steps we need to take to grow   our business long term. The market we serve is large   it s also   expanding geographically, with approximately 11% of our sales   now generated outside the United States   and the competitive   landscape is still very fragmented. These conditions create an   opportunity for years of growth. We simply need to understand our   strengths and to then invest in the right growth drivers.   Our biggest strength is great people. Despite the weakening   business climate in 2015, we added 2,329 people, a 12.6%   increase over our employee count on December 31, 2014. Roughly   72% of this increase went into a store or an Onsite location   (essentially a  store  within a customer facility), while about 9%   of this increase went into a non-store selling role. Said another   way, about 80% of the people we added in 2015 will either directly   serve or directly interface with our customers on a daily basis. This   close contact creates long-term relationships and also instills a   sense of urgency into our organization.   The other 20% went to support our business today and to build   for the future. Roughly 15% were added to our distribution   teams. In 2015 we continued to expand our trucking network,   with the ultimate goal of adding service capacity while also   reducing our long-term costs. The lower fuel prices in 2015   allowed us to push hard toward this goal. The remaining 4%   to 5% were divided across several areas of the business, with   the majority taking on roles within our Information Technology   group, an area where we continue to  play some catch up  to   expand our development capabilities. A substantial part of this   technology investment was dedicated towards expanding a new   software development center. Currently we have more than 75   software professionals in this center. When combined with our   existing resources, this center expands our ability to develop   new applications and business solutions.   After people, our second strength is the economics of a great   distribution business. When the economy is strong, we fund our   growth with the cash generated from a profitable business. When   the economy is weaker, we produce a relatively stronger operating   cash flow and ultimately a stronger free cash flow. This was true   in 2015 as our operating cash flow increased more than 9% and   our free cash flow increased about 18%, compared to the prior   year (the latter being noteworthy given our acquisition). Given   the strong cash flow characteristics of the business, we chose   to increase our dividend and to substantially increase our level   of stock buybacks. These two items, when combined, increased   the dollars returned to shareholders by about 77% (from 2014   to 2015). We believe these two strengths, funding the future by   expanding our headcount today and opportunistically using our   strong cash flow capabilities to your benefit, position us well as   we move into 2016 and beyond.   Our biggest strength is great   people. Despite the weakening   business climate in 2015, we added   2,329 people, a 12.6% increase   over our employee count on   December 31, 2014.     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT   2   With our investment in more people and a strong balance sheet, we can aggressively pursue the   following growth drivers:   Industrial vending has been a wonderful complement to the Fastenal distribution   business over the last five years. During this period, we deployed more than 50,000   devices, and yet we felt we could do more to build the momentum and to improve the   existing business. Today, our average district manager leads a business with about   180 devices deployed. The sheer numbers make it difficult at times for our local   teams to focus on servicing and improving the existing devices, growing the device   count, and doing everything else needed to support their customers. This prompted   us to invest in growth energy centered on vending. We closed the year with over 80%   of our districts having a specialist dedicated to two things: 1) optimizing the existing   devices across the district (with the right mix of products to maximize revenue for   Fastenal and cost savings for our customers), and 2) working with local stores to sign   more machines. This has breathed new life into our vending program, and we believe   it will serve us well in 2016 and beyond.   As mentioned earlier, this is where we place a  store  (i.e., dedicated Fastenal personnel   and inventory) within a customer s location. We have quietly grown this business for   the last 15 years, typically adding about nine Onsite locations per year. In 2015, with   a bit more focus, we signed 82 new Onsite customer locations, a nine-fold increase,   with about 25% of our district managers signing an Onsite location during the year. We   believe the future is very bright for this initiative for a number of reasons. First, it fits our   store-based distribution model (minus many of the costs involved with running a public   store). Second, it brings us closer to the customer, positioning us to provide tremendous   service and value. And third, our frugal culture enables us to run a profitable Onsite   business where others simply cannot, eliminating the competitive field in all but the   largest customer opportunities. Executing a plan is about participation across the   organization, something we saw with our industrial vending initiative over the last five-   plus years. This prompted us to ask a simple question: What if 65% of our district   managers were signing Onsite locations each year? As a company, we have never   been bashful about goals, so we ve targeted 200 additional Onsite locations for 2016.   Given the momentum we established in 2015 and what we know about the market   opportunity, we believe this is achievable with some additional focus from our district   managers and our National Accounts team.   Late in 2014 we looked at our National Accounts group, the team responsible for signing and corporately supporting customers with   multi-site contracts. We looked at their strengths and weaknesses, and we also looked at their processes and tools. We decided early on   to make some personnel changes, and many of these changes involved a refocus of some very talented individuals. The results include an   improvement in our pace of new signings. During 2015, we signed more new contracts (defined as new customer accounts with a multi-   site contract) with national account customers than in 2014, reversing what had been a declining trend. We also decided to step away   from the world of  spreadsheets and email  as a way to communicate within National Accounts and other non-store selling teams, and   transitioned to a CRM (customer relationship management) system. Beginning in late 2014, our technical and functional support teams   worked hard to define our needs and then to implement a solution. The new CRM went live in the fall of 2015 for our National Accounts   team, with other users to follow in the first half of 2016. We believe this investment will give our non-store selling teams a better view of   their customers, increase efficiency, focus our resources, and ultimately improve our service.   1. INDUSTRIAL VENDING   3. NATIONAL ACCOUNTS   2. ONSITE     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT   3   DANIEL L. FLORNESS   President and Chief Executive Officer   WILLARD D. OBERTON   Chairman of the Board   With CSP 16, we re refreshing   and expanding our store   inventory model to better   present our customers with   same-day product solutions.   4. STORE LOCATIONS   And finally, we have store locations. After several years of not   opening many of them, we picked up the pace late in 2015,   opening 41 stores during the year and 28 in the last three months.   This compares to 24 stores opened in all of 2014. In both 2015   and 2014 we also closed or consolidated some stores   50 and   73, respectively. Unlike many store-based businesses, we don t   fear this prospect. Because we deliver most of what we sell, we   have great flexibility as to the number of locations in an individual   market. The key is to stay focused on the best model to serve our   customers and grow.   One of the key advantages of our local store-based model is that,   while our national competitors are typically restricted to 24 to 48   hour order fulfillment (at best), we re able to meet a wide range   of customer needs today. In November 2015 we set out to further   hone this advantage by announcing an investment in what we re   calling  CSP 16.  This is a revitalization of our ongoing Customer   Service Project, which was originally launched in 2002 to improve   our store merchandising and pull more inventory onto our local   shelves. With CSP 16, we re refreshing and expanding our store   inventory model to better present our customers with same-day   product solutions. This involves adding inventory into each store.   Some of this is moving inventory from our distribution centers to   our stores for more immediate and visible availability, and some   is an investment in additional inventory. All of it positions our local   store teams to win business by saying,  Yes, we have it today.    You may have noticed an unusual event for Fastenal in 2015. We   acquired a regional fastener distributor in the Pacific Northwest of   the U.S. (based in Spokane, WA). We felt this was a great business   with a great cultural fit with Fastenal, and that we could make   an appropriate return on our investment. We are hopeful there   are other businesses with a similar fit, and that this could be an   added opportunity to grow the organization. Only time will prove   if this is so.   A final observation about Fastenal centers on our distribution   system, the flow of product from the supplier to the customer. We   believe we have built what others want   a supply chain that goes   the  last mile.  Fastenal s last mile has the same capability and   durability of the  first mile  however, it didn t  break the bank  to   build, nor is it overly expensive to operate (especially compared   to the value it provides). The expression  last mile  originated   from the building of a telephone network in the last century. The   last mile (extending the network to end users  properties) was   extremely expensive relative to the corresponding call traffic, so it   took decades and massive amounts of private and public dollars   to build. In the race to provide faster and better customer service,   this limiting factor exists in our industry today, with one exception:   Fastenal s last mile is already built. It s represented by our local   stores, our Onsite locations, and our point-of-use inventory   solutions (including vending); and it s what truly separates our   company in the marketplace.   This year s letter reflects our disappointment regarding 2015 and   our aspirations for 2016, and it centers on customers, people,   and opportunities. We hope you find it helpful in understanding   both our business and our priorities. As always, Growth Through   Customer Service   is the cornerstone of our organization. This   means providing value, providing ideas, and helping everyone     Fastenal and our customers   operate more efficiently. We believe   this is smart business.   Thank you for your continued belief in Fastenal, and thank you for   your support in the last year. Many organizations pull back in a   weak environment; we move forward with investments to continue   our growth for years to come.     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT   4   Operating Results 2015 Percent Change 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006   Net sales $ 3,869,187 3.6% $3,733,507  $3,326,106  $3,133,577  $2,766,859  $2,269,471  $1,930,330  $2,340,425  $2,061,819  $1,809,337   Gross profit $ 1,948,934 2.7%  1,897,402  1,719,445  1,614,524  1,434,172  1,174,836  983,435  1,236,092  1,047,574  907,675         % of net sales 50.4% 50.8% 51.7% 51.5% 51.8% 51.8% 50.9% 52.8% 50.8% 50.2%   Earnings before income taxes $ 826,020 4.9%  787,434 713,468  674,155  575,081  430,640  297,490  451,167  377,899  321,029         % of net sales 21.3% 21.1% 21.5% 21.5% 20.8% 19.0% 15.4% 19.3% 18.3% 17.7%   Net earnings $ 516,361 4.5%  494,150 448,636  420,536  357,929  265,356  184,357  279,705  232,622  199,038         % of net sales 13.3% 13.2% 13.5% 13.4% 12.9% 11.7% 9.6% 12.0% 11.3% 11.0%   Basic net earnings per share $ 1.77 6.0%  1.67 1.51 1.42 1.21 0.90 0.62 0.94 0.77 0.66   Basic weighted average shares outstanding 291,453 -1.7%  296,490  296,754 296,089 295,054 294,861 296,716 297,662 301,109 302,068   Diluted net earnings per share $ 1.77 6.6%  1.66 1.51 1.42 1.21 0.90 0.62 0.94 0.77 0.66   Diluted weighted average shares outstanding(1) 292,045 -1.8%  297,313 297,684 297,151 295,869 294,861 296,716 297,662 301,109 302,329   Dividends and Common    Stock Purchase Summary 2015   Percent   Change 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006   Dividends paid $ 327,101 10.3% $296,581  $237,456  $367,306  $191,741  $182,814  $106,943  $117,474  $66,216 $ 60,548         % of net earnings 63.3% 60.0% 52.9% 87.3% 53.6% 68.9% 58.0% 42.0% 28.5% 30.4%   Dividends paid per share $ 1.12 12.0%  1.00 0.80 1.24 0.65 0.62 0.36 0.395 0.22 0.20   Purchases of common stock $ 292,951 453.3%  52,942 9,080  -   -   -  41,104 25,958 87,311 17,294         % of net earnings 56.7% 10.7% 2.0%  -   -   -  22.3% 9.3% 37.5% 8.7%   Common stock shares purchased 7,100 491.7% 1,200 200  -   -   -  2,200 1,180 4,172 948   Average price paid per share $ 41.26 -6.5%  44.12 45.40  -   -   -  18.69 22.00 20.93 18.25   Cash Flow Summary 2015 Percent Change 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006   Net cash provided by operating activities $ 546,940 9.5% $499,392 $416,120  $396,292  $268,489  $240,488  $306,070  $259,898  $227,895  $97,875         % of net earnings 105.9% 101.1% 92.8% 94.2% 75.0% 90.6% 166.0% 92.9% 98.0% 49.2%   Less capital expenditures, net $ (145,227) -20.9%  (183,655)  (201,550)  (133,882)  (116,489)  (69,138)  (47,675)  (86,923)  (49,830)  (73,335)   Acquisitions and other $ (35,400) 534.7%  (5,577) (145) (133) 212  (10,329)  (5,133) (72) (265) (231)   Free cash flow $ 366,313 18.1%  310,160 214,425 262,277 152,212 161,021  253,262 172,903 177,800 24,309         % of net earnings 70.9% 62.8% 47.8% 62.4% 42.5% 60.7% 137.4% 61.8% 76.4% 12.2%   Financial Position at Year End 2015 Percent Change 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006   Operational working capital        (accounts receivable, net and inventories) $ 1,381,638 3.8% $1,331,301  $1,198,399  $1,087,542  $984,746  $827,502  $722,574  $809,187  $740,923  $665,529   Net working capital        (current assets less current liabilities) $ 1,291,610 6.9% 1,207,912 1,168,629  1,082,482  1,048,320  923,513  862,855  827,410  742,980  663,880   Fixed capital         (property and equipment, net) $ 818,889 7.2%  763,889 654,850  516,427  435,601  363,419  335,004  324,182  276,627  264,030   Total assets $ 2,532,462 7.3%  2,359,102 2,075,784  1,815,832  1,684,948  1,468,283  1,327,358  1,304,149  1,163,061  1,039,016   Total debt        (current portion of debt and long-term debt) $ 365,000 305.6% 90,000 - - - - - - - -   Total stockholders  equity $ 1,801,289 -5.9%  1,915,217 1,772,697  1,560,360  1,458,976  1,282,512  1,190,843  1,142,259  1,010,161  992,093   All information contained in this Annual Report reflects the 2-for-1 stock split in 2011.   (1) Reflects impact of stock options issued by the Company that were in-the-money and outstanding during the period.   (Amounts in Thousands Except Per Share Information)   10-YEAR SELECTED FINANCIAL   DA   TA     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT   5   Operating Results 2015 Percent Change 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006   Net sales $ 3,869,187 3.6% $3,733,507  $3,326,106  $3,133,577  $2,766,859  $2,269,471  $1,930,330  $2,340,425  $2,061,819  $1,809,337   Gross profit $ 1,948,934 2.7%  1,897,402  1,719,445  1,614,524  1,434,172  1,174,836  983,435  1,236,092  1,047,574  907,675         % of net sales 50.4% 50.8% 51.7% 51.5% 51.8% 51.8% 50.9% 52.8% 50.8% 50.2%   Earnings before income taxes $ 826,020 4.9%  787,434 713,468  674,155  575,081  430,640  297,490  451,167  377,899  321,029         % of net sales 21.3% 21.1% 21.5% 21.5% 20.8% 19.0% 15.4% 19.3% 18.3% 17.7%   Net earnings $ 516,361 4.5%  494,150 448,636  420,536  357,929  265,356  184,357  279,705  232,622  199,038         % of net sales 13.3% 13.2% 13.5% 13.4% 12.9% 11.7% 9.6% 12.0% 11.3% 11.0%   Basic net earnings per share $ 1.77 6.0%  1.67 1.51 1.42 1.21 0.90 0.62 0.94 0.77 0.66   Basic weighted average shares outstanding 291,453 -1.7%  296,490  296,754 296,089 295,054 294,861 296,716 297,662 301,109 302,068   Diluted net earnings per share $ 1.77 6.6%  1.66 1.51 1.42 1.21 0.90 0.62 0.94 0.77 0.66   Diluted weighted average shares outstanding(1) 292,045 -1.8%  297,313 297,684 297,151 295,869 294,861 296,716 297,662 301,109 302,329   Dividends and Common    Stock Purchase Summary 2015   Percent   Change 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006   Dividends paid $ 327,101 10.3% $296,581  $237,456  $367,306  $191,741  $182,814  $106,943  $117,474  $66,216 $ 60,548         % of net earnings 63.3% 60.0% 52.9% 87.3% 53.6% 68.9% 58.0% 42.0% 28.5% 30.4%   Dividends paid per share $ 1.12 12.0%  1.00 0.80 1.24 0.65 0.62 0.36 0.395 0.22 0.20   Purchases of common stock $ 292,951 453.3%  52,942 9,080  -   -   -  41,104 25,958 87,311 17,294         % of net earnings 56.7% 10.7% 2.0%  -   -   -  22.3% 9.3% 37.5% 8.7%   Common stock shares purchased 7,100 491.7% 1,200 200  -   -   -  2,200 1,180 4,172 948   Average price paid per share $ 41.26 -6.5%  44.12 45.40  -   -   -  18.69 22.00 20.93 18.25   Cash Flow Summary 2015 Percent Change 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006   Net cash provided by operating activities $ 546,940 9.5% $499,392 $416,120  $396,292  $268,489  $240,488  $306,070  $259,898  $227,895  $97,875         % of net earnings 105.9% 101.1% 92.8% 94.2% 75.0% 90.6% 166.0% 92.9% 98.0% 49.2%   Less capital expenditures, net $ (145,227) -20.9%  (183,655)  (201,550)  (133,882)  (116,489)  (69,138)  (47,675)  (86,923)  (49,830)  (73,335)   Acquisitions and other $ (35,400) 534.7%  (5,577) (145) (133) 212  (10,329)  (5,133) (72) (265) (231)   Free cash flow $ 366,313 18.1%  310,160 214,425 262,277 152,212 161,021  253,262 172,903 177,800 24,309         % of net earnings 70.9% 62.8% 47.8% 62.4% 42.5% 60.7% 137.4% 61.8% 76.4% 12.2%   Financial Position at Year End 2015 Percent Change 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007 2006   Operational working capital        (accounts receivable, net and inventories) $ 1,381,638 3.8% $1,331,301  $1,198,399  $1,087,542  $984,746  $827,502  $722,574  $809,187  $740,923  $665,529   Net working capital        (current assets less current liabilities) $ 1,291,610 6.9% 1,207,912 1,168,629  1,082,482  1,048,320  923,513  862,855  827,410  742,980  663,880   Fixed capital         (property and equipment, net) $ 818,889 7.2%  763,889 654,850  516,427  435,601  363,419  335,004  324,182  276,627  264,030   Total assets $ 2,532,462 7.3%  2,359,102 2,075,784  1,815,832  1,684,948  1,468,283  1,327,358  1,304,149  1,163,061  1,039,016   Total debt        (current portion of debt and long-term debt) $ 365,000 305.6% 90,000 - - - - - - - -   Total stockholders  equity $ 1,801,289 -5.9%  1,915,217 1,772,697  1,560,360  1,458,976  1,282,512  1,190,843  1,142,259  1,010,161  992,093   All information contained in this Annual Report reflects the 2-for-1 stock split in 2011.   (1) Reflects impact of stock options issued by the Company that were in-the-money and outstanding during the period.   FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT   6   2015 High Low 2014 High Low   First quarter $47.40 $39.82 First quarter $50.43 $42.70   Second quarter 43.41 40.01 Second quarter 51.20 47.80   Third quarter 42.82 36.13 Third quarter 50.08 43.74   Fourth quarter 41.64 35.50 Fourth quarter 48.21 40.78   As of January 22, 2016, there were approximately 1,200 record holders of our common stock, which includes nominees or broker   dealers holding stock on behalf of an estimated 185,000 beneficial owners.   In 2015 and 2014, we paid dividends totaling $1.12 and $1.00, respectively. On January 14, 2016, we announced a quarterly   dividend of $0.30 per share to be paid on February 26, 2016 to shareholders of record at the close of business on January 29, 2016.   Our board of directors intends to continue paying quarterly dividends, provided that any future determination as to payment of   dividends will depend upon the financial condition and results of operations of the company and such other factors as are deemed   relevant by the board of directors.   We purchased 7,100,000 shares of our common stock in 2015 at an average price of $41.26 per share. In 2014, we purchased   1,200,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $44.12 per share.   Common Stock Data   Our shares are traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol  FAST . The following   table sets forth, by quarter, the high and low closing sale price of our shares on The NASDAQ   Stock Market for the last two years(1).   2015 Net  Sales   Gross    Profit    Pre-tax    Earnings   Net    Earnings   Basic    Net Earnings    per Share   Diluted    Net Earnings   per Share   First quarter $953,317 484,050 203,512 127,606 0.43 0.43   Second quarter   997,827 502,087 225,099 140,357 0.48 0.48   Third quarter   995,250 502,225 219,204 136,494 0.47 0.47   Fourth quarter   922,793 460,572 178,205 111,904 0.39 0.39   Total $3,869,187 1,948,934 826,020 516,361 1.77 1.77   2014 Net  Sales   Gross    Profit    Pre-tax    Earnings   Net    Earnings   Basic    Net Earnings    per Share   Diluted    Net Earnings   per Share   First quarter $876,501 448,478 178,845 111,931 0.38 0.38   Second quarter   949,938 482,667 206,782 130,514 0.44 0.44   Third quarter   980,814 498,693 212,988 133,314 0.45 0.45   Fourth quarter   926,254 467,564 188,819 118,391 0.40 0.40   Total $3,733,507 1,897,402 787,434 494,150 1.67 1.66   (1) The closing sale price was obtained from Shareholder.com, a division of Nasdaq OMX.   STOCK   AND   FINANCIAL   DATA   (Dollar amounts in Thousands   Except Per Share Information)   SELECTED Q   UA   RTER   LY FINANCIAL   DA   TA (UN   AUDITED   )     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT   7   Invested $9,000 on   August 20, 1987   Value on   December 31, 2015:   $3,918,720   Stock Split   INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (IPO)   On August 20, 1987 (date of our initial public offering), 1,000   shares of our stock sold for $9,000. Approximately 28 years   later, on December 31, 2015, those 1,000 shares, having split   seven times, were 96,000 shares worth $3,918,720, for a gain   of approximately 24.2% compounded annually. (In addition,   the holder of these shares would have received $669,024 in   dividends since August 20, 1987.)   TEN YEARS   On December 31, 2005, 1,000 shares of our stock sold for   $39,130. Ten years later on December 31, 2015, those 1,000   shares, having split once, were 2,000 shares worth $81,640,   for a gain of approximately 7.6% compounded annually.   (In addition, the holder of these shares would have received   $13,210 in dividends since December 2005.)   FIVE YEARS   On December 31, 2010, 1,000 shares of our stock sold for   $59,910. Five years later, on December 31, 2015, those 1,000   shares, having split once, were 2,000 shares worth $81,640   for a gain of approximately 6.4% compounded annually. (In   addition, the holder of these shares would have received $9,620   in dividends since December 2010.)   STOCK PERFORMANCE   HIGHLIGHTS(1), (2)   HISTORICAL STOCK PERFORMANC   E   DIVIDENDS    AND STOCK DILUTIO   N We have paid dividends in every year since 1991.   Since going public in 1987, we have maintained a consistent   focus on avoiding, if feasible, the potentially dilutive impact of   our activities on our shareholders. To this end, we have grown   our organization principally with internal cash flow, have   supported the Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 401(k) and   Employee Stock Ownership Plan with stock purchased in the   open market, and since creating a stock option program in   2003, have periodically purchased common stock in the open   market to, among other things, offset the potential impact of our   stock option grants. We have purchased approximately 18.4   million shares since 2003, and have granted our employees   options to purchase approximately 11.8 million shares. Of   the stock option grants, approximately 4.5 million have been   exercised, approximately 2.8 million have been forfeited, and   approximately 4.5 million currently remain outstanding. (Note     these amounts have been adjusted to reflect the impact of   stock splits.)   $1,000,000   $2,000,000   $3,000,000   $4,000,000   $5,000,000   198   7   198   9   199   1   199   3   199   5   199   7   199   9   200   1   200   3   200   5   200   7   200   9   201   1   201   3   201   5   (1)  The share data represents past performance, which is no   guarantee of future results.   (2)  The dollar amounts above are presented in whole numbers   versus thousands or millions as is prevalent in the remainder of   this document.     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT   8   In the industrial world, purchasing decisions are increasingly being made based not only   on product price and quality, but also the supplier s impact on productivity and various   costs associated with procuring, managing, and owning inventory. This broader definition   of value is often referred to as the total cost of ownership (TCO), and it s through this lens   that Fastenal truly shines.   Why do companies choose Fastenal? Below are seven aspects of our service that we   believe set us apart and position us to take market share faster than the competition.   KEY GROWTH   DRIVERS   NATIONAL   ACCOUNTS   ONSITE   PERSONNEL   PRODUCT   AVAILABILITY   VENDING   E-BUSINESS   While other suppliers tout 24 to 48 hour lead   times (via remote warehouses and third-party   carriers), our local stores and point-of-use   inventory solutions put us in a position to   supply many of our customers  needs today.   Needed supplies can be quickly    self-served  at the point of use,   24/7, yet every transaction   is tracked and reported,   increasing productivity while   reducing consumption.   Our Onsite model is the   ultimate expression of our   local service, bringing a full-time   service team and immediately-available   inventory within the four walls of our   customers  facilities.   Our e-business solutions leverage   our investment in a supply chain   that goes  the last mile,  pointing   customers to the nearest (and thus   fastest) product solutions while   providing clear visibility into their   business with Fastenal.   Fastenal national account customers   benefit from a unique value proposition     globally-leveraged pricing backed by   custom local inventory and service   for each of their facilities.   Manufacturing and industrial   services represent a   small percentage of our   business in terms of   revenue, but they help   distinguish us in the   marketplace as a true   solutions provider.   Roughly 75% of our 20,000+ employees   are located in close proximity to the   customers they serve, setting the stage   for superior service, strong relationships,   and new opportunities.   SERVICES     

2015 ANNUAL REPORT 2015 ANNUAL REPORT   MICHAEL J. DOLAN   Self-Employed Business Consultant,   Retired Executive Vice President and    Chief Operating Officer,    The Smead Manufacturing Company   GARY A. POLIPNICK   Executive Vice President -    FAST Solutions    SCOTT A. SATTERLEE   Retired President of North America   Surface Transportation Division, C.H.   Robinson Worldwide, Inc. (logistics and   distribution company)   JAMES C. JANSEN   Executive Vice President - Manufacturing   LELAND J. HEIN   Senior Executive Vice President - Sales   NICHOLAS J. LUNDQUIST   Executive Vice President - Operations   CHARLES S. MILLER   Executive Vice President - Sales   RITA J. HEISE   Self-Employed Business Consultant,   Retired Corporate Vice President and   Chief Information Officer of    Cargill, Incorporated   LELAND J. HEIN   SHERYL A. LISOWSKI   Interim Chief Financial Officer, Controller,   and Chief Accounting Officer   STEPHEN L. EASTMAN   President of the Parts, Garments,    and Accessories Division of    Polaris Industries Inc.   (recreational vehicle manufacturer)   DANIEL L. FLORNESS   President and Chief Executive Officer   DANIEL L. FLORNESS   HUGH L. MILLER   President and Chief Executive Officer,   RTP Company (thermoplastics materials   manufacturer)   REYNE K. WISECUP   REYNE K. WISECUP   Executive Vice President -    Human Resources   DARREN R. JACKSON   Retired Chief Executive Officer, Advance   Auto Parts, Inc. (auto parts company)   ASHOK SINGH   Executive Vice President -    Information Technology   WILLARD D. OBERTON   Chairman of the Board, Retired President   and Chief Executive Officer,    Fastenal Company   MICHAEL J. ANCIUS   Director of Strategic Planning, Financing,    and Taxation, Kwik Trip, Inc.    (retail convenience store operator)   21CO   UN   TR   IES    WIT   H FASTENAL STORES   DIRECTOR   S   EXECUTIVE OFFICER   S TERRY M. OWEN   Senior Executive Vice President -    Sales Operations   JOHN L. SODERBERG   Executive Vice President -    Sales Operations and Support   ANNUAL   MEETING   FORM   10-K   LEGAL   COUNSEL   HOME   OFFICE   TRANSFER   AGENT   INDEPENDENT   REGISTERED PUBLIC   ACCOUNTING FIRM   The annual meeting of shareholders   will be held at 10:00 a.m., central   time, April 19, 2016, at our home   office located at 2001 Theurer   Boulevard, Winona, Minnesota.   A copy of our 2015 Annual Report   on Form 10-K to the Securities and   Exchange Commission is available   without charge to shareholders   upon written request to internal   audit at the address of our home   office listed on this page.   Copies of our latest press releases,   unaudited supplemental company   information, and monthly sales   information are available at:   http://investor.fastenal.com.   Faegre Baker Daniels LLP   Minneapolis, Minnesota   Streater   Murphy, PA   Winona, Minnesota   Fastenal Company   2001 Theurer Boulevard   Winona, Minnesota 55987-0978   Phone:  (507) 454-5374   Fax:  (507) 453-8049   Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.   Minneapolis, Minnesota   KPMG LLP   Minneapolis, Minnesota   CORPOR   ATE INFORM   ATIO   N   $3.9 BILLIO   N   $516 MILLIO   N   NET SALE   S   NET EARNING   S   TABLE OF CONTENTS   1-3 Letter to Shareholders   4-5 10-Year Selected Financial    Data   Financial Highlights   6 Stock and Financial Data   7 Stock Performance Highlights   8 Key Growth Drivers   9 Form 10-K   INSIDE   BACK   COVER   Directors   Executive Officers   Corporate Information   55,000   +   VENDING MACHINES INSTALLED   DAILY SALES   GROWTH TO    CUSTOMERS   WITH VENDING   NO. OF FASTENAL SCHOOL OF   BUSINESS COURSE COMPLETIONS   487,095   ONSITE   LOCATIONS   264   STORES   2,622   INVENTORY VALUE   $913 MILLION   NO. OF ORDERS PROCESSED   35,064,013   20,746   EMPLOYEES   118,000+   EMPLOYEE SAFETY   COACHING, TRAINING,     INSPECTION EVENTS   FASTENAL AT AGLANCE   135MILLIONMILES DELIVERED 783DELIVEREDMILLION POUNDS   36,000+   BIN STOCKS   ACTIVE   6.4%     

2015   ANNUAL    REPO   RT   9704582 2015 Annual Report  |  1.16KM  |  Printed in the USA   ANNUAL   REPORT2015     

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 3
 fast1231201510-kexhibit21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 
  Subsidiaries of Fastenal Company 
                       Geographic Location 
    Subsidiary Name 
    Doing Business as 
    Year Incorporated 
    Jurisdiction of Incorporation 
      North America 

United States 
    Fastenal International Holdings Company 
    Same 
    1994 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal Company Purchasing 
    Same 
    1997 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal Company Leasing 
    Same 
    1997 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal IP Company 
    Same 
    2005 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal Air Fleet, LLC 
    Same 
    2006 
    Minnesota 
        
    River Surplus and Supply, LLC 
    Same 
    2014 
    Minnesota 
      Canada 
    Fastenal Canada, Ltd. 
    Same 
    2008 
    Canada 
      Mexico 
    Fastenal Mexico Services S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Same 
    1999 
    Mexico 
        
    Fastenal Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Same 
    1999 
    Mexico 
      Central   South America 

Panama 
    Fastenal Panama S.A. 
    Same 
    2009 
    Panama 
        
    Fastenal Latin America, S.A. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Panama 
      Brazil 
    Fastenal Brasil Importa  o, Exporta  o e Distribui  o Ltda. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Brazil 
        
    Fastenal Brasil Participacoes Ltda. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Brazil 
      Colombia 
    Fastenal Colombia S.A.S. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Colombia 
      Chile 
    Fastenal Chile SpA 
    Same 
    2013 
    Chile 
      Asia 

China 
    Fastenal Asia Pacific Limited 
    Same 
    2003 
    Hong Kong, China 
        
    FASTCO (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 
    Same 
    2003 
    Shanghai, China 
        
    Fastenal (Shanghai) International Trading Co. Ltd. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Shanghai, China 
        
    Fastenal (Tianjin) International Trading Co. Ltd. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Tianjin, China 
        
    Fastenal (Shenzhen) International Trading Co. Ltd. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Shenzhen, China 
      India 
    Fastenal India Sourcing, IT and Procurement Private Ltd. 
    Same 
    2013 
    India 
        
    Fastenal India Wholesale Private Ltd. 
    Same 
    2013 
    India 
      Southeast Asia 

Singapore 
    Fastenal Singapore PTE Ltd. 
    Same 
    2001 
    Singapore 
      Malaysia 
    Fastenal Malaysia SDN BHD 
    Same 
    2009 
    Malaysia 
      Thailand 
    Fastenal (Thailand) Ltd. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Thailand 
      Europe 

The Netherlands 
    Fastenal Europe, B.V. 
    Same 
    2003 
    The Netherlands 
        
    Fastenal Netherlands Holdings, B.V. 
    Same 
    2015 
    The Netherlands 
      Hungary 
    Fastenal Europe, Kft. 
    Same 
    2009 
    Hungary 
      United Kingdom 
    Fastenal Europe, Ltd. 
    Same 
    2010 
    United Kingdom 
      Germany 
    Fastenal Europe GmbH 
    Same 
    2011 
    Germany 
      Czech Republic 
    Fastenal Europe, s.r.o. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Czech Republic 
      Italy 
    Fastenal Europe S.r.l. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Italy 
      Romania 
    Fastenal Europe RO S.r.l. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Romania 
      Sweden 
    Fastenal Europe AB 
    Same 
    2013 
    Sweden 
      Poland 
    Fastenal Europe Sp. z o.o. 
    Same 
    2013 
    Poland 
      Africa 

South Africa 
    Fastenal South Africa Trading and Distribution (PTY) LTD 
    Same 
    2013 
    South Africa 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 fast1231201510-kexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Fastenal Company: 
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (no. 333-52765, no. 333-134211, no. 333-162619, and no. 333-176401) on Form S-8 of Fastenal Company of our report dated   February 5, 2016  , relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Fastenal Company and subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2015  , and the related financial statement schedule, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  , which report appears in the   December 31, 2015   annual report on Form 10-K, of Fastenal Company. 
    
  /s/  KPMG LLP 
  Minneapolis, Minnesota 
  February 5, 2016    

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 5
 fast1231201510-kexhibit31.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS UNDER SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXELY ACT OF 2002

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31 
  CERTIFICATIONS 
  I, Daniel L. Florness, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Fastenal Company; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    February 5, 2016 

/s/    Daniel L. Florness 

Daniel L. Florness 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

Exhibit 31 (Continued) 
  CERTIFICATIONS 
  I, Sheryl A. Lisowski, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Fastenal Company; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    February 5, 2016 

/s/    Sheryl A. Lisowski 

Sheryl A. Lisowski 

Interim Chief Financial Officer, Controller, and Chief Accounting 

Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 6
 fast1231201510-kexhibit32.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS UNDER SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32 
  CERTIFICATION UNDER SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, each of the undersigned certifies that this periodic report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in this periodic report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Fastenal Company. 
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Fastenal Company and will be retained by Fastenal Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

/s/    Daniel L. Florness 
      
    /s/    Sheryl A. Lisowski 
        
    Daniel L. Florness 
      
    Sheryl A. Lisowski 
        
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Interim Chief Financial Officer, Controller, and Chief 
        
    (Principal Executive Officer) 
      
    Accounting Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 24
 fast-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 25
 fast-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 26
 fast-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 27
 fast-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 28
 fast-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 29
 fast-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

