<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160216_10-K_edgar_data_75362_0001193125-16-465258_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>13353023</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>206848</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>682896</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3415131</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5953700</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2568588</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>72</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001193125-16-465258.hdr.sgml : 20160215
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160216161411
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001193125-16-465258
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		126
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160216
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160216

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			PACCAR INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000075362
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	MOTOR VEHICLES & PASSENGER CAR BODIES [3711]
		IRS NUMBER:				910351110
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-14817
		FILM NUMBER:		161428346

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PACCAR BUILDING
		STREET 2:		777 106TH AVENUE NE
		CITY:			BELLEVUE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98004
		BUSINESS PHONE:		425 468 7383

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		PACCAR BUILDING
		STREET 2:		777 106TH AVENUE NE
		CITY:			BELLEVUE
		STATE:			WA
		ZIP:			98004

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	PACIFIC CAR & FOUNDRY CO
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19720707

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001193125-16-465258.txt : 20160216

10-K
 1
 d45361d10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Form 10-K 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES    
   SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION        WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549         
        Form 10-K
       Annual Report Pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d)    
   of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934    
    For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2015    
    Commission File No. 001-14817    
         
   PACCAR Inc    
   (Exact name of Registrant as specified in its charter)    
   
     Registrant s telephone number, including area code  (425) 468-7400     
   Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:    

Title of Each Class    
     
     Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered     

Common Stock, $1 par value  
     
  The NASDAQ Global Select Market LLC   
     Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE    
            Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.
    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.     Yes         No           Indicate
by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was
required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for at least the past
90 days.    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to
Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such
files).    Yes         No           Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of  Regulation S-K  is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to
the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this  Form 10-K  or any amendment to this
 Form 10-K.              Indicate by
check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and
 smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.       

Large accelerated filer  

Accelerated filer  

Non-accelerated filer  

Smaller reporting company  

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in
 Rule 12b-2  of the Exchange
Act).    Yes         No           The aggregate market value of the voting stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30, 2015:       Common Stock, $1 par value - $22.18 billion       The number of shares outstanding of the
registrant s classes of common stock, as of January 31, 2016:       Common Stock, $1 par value - 351,358,497
shares              
   DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE       Portions of the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting to be held on April 26, 2016 are incorporated by reference into Part III.   

Table of Contents  

    PACCAR Inc   FORM 10-K    
     INDEX        

Page  

PART I      

ITEM 1.   
     
     BUSINESS    

3  

ITEM 1A.   
     
     RISK FACTORS    

7  

ITEM 1B.   
     
     UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS    

9  

ITEM 2.   
     
     PROPERTIES    

9  

ITEM 3.   
     
     LEGAL PROCEEDINGS    

9  

ITEM 4.   
     
     MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES    

10  

PART II      

ITEM 5.   
     
     MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES

10  

ITEM 6.   
     
     SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA    

12  

ITEM 7.   
     
     MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF
OPERATIONS    

13  

ITEM 7A.   
     
     QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURE ABOUT MARKET RISK    

36  

ITEM 8.   
     
     FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA    

37  

ITEM 9.   
     
     CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE    

78  

ITEM 9A.   
     
     CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES    

78  

ITEM 9B.   
     
     OTHER INFORMATION    

78  

PART III      

ITEM 10.   
     
     DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE    

79  

ITEM 11.   
     
     EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION    

80  

ITEM 12.   
     
     SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER
MATTERS    

80  

ITEM 13.   
     
     CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE    

80  

ITEM 14.   
     
     PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES    

80  

PART IV      

ITEM 15.   
     
     EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES     

81  

SIGNATURES     

85  

2   

Table of Contents  

      PART I    

ITEM 1.   
   BUSINESS.          

(a)  
  General Development of Business     
  PACCAR Inc (the Company or PACCAR), incorporated under the laws of Delaware in 1971, is the successor to Pacific Car and Foundry Company
which was incorporated in Washington in 1924. The Company traces its predecessors to Seattle Car Manufacturing Company formed in 1905.       

(b)  
  Financial Information About Industry Segments and Geographic Areas        Information about the Company s industry segments and geographic areas in response to Items 101(b), (c)(1)(i), and (d) of Regulation S-K appears in Item 8, Note R, of this Form 10-K.

(c)  
  Narrative Description of Business     
  PACCAR is a multinational company operating in three principal industry segments:   

(1)  
  The Truck segment includes the design, manufacture and distribution of high-quality, light-, medium- and heavy-duty commercial trucks. Heavy-duty trucks have a gross
vehicle weight (GVW) of over 33,000 lbs (Class 8) in North America and over 16 metric tonnes in Europe. Medium-duty trucks have a GVW ranging from 19,500 to 33,000 lbs (Class 6 to 7) in North America, and in Europe, light- and medium-duty trucks
range between 6 to 16 metric tonnes. Trucks are configured with engine in front of cab (conventional) or cab-over-engine (COE).         

(2)  
  The Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles.     

(3)  
  The Financial Services segment includes finance and leasing products and services provided to customers and dealers. PACCAR s finance and leasing activities are
principally related to PACCAR products and associated equipment.        PACCAR s Other business includes the
manufacturing and marketing of industrial winches.       TRUCKS       PACCAR s trucks are marketed under the Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF nameplates. These trucks, which are built in three plants in the United States, three in Europe and one each in Australia, Brasil,
Canada and Mexico, are used worldwide for over-the-road and off-highway hauling of freight, petroleum, wood products and construction-related and other materials. The Company also manufactures engines at its facilities in Columbus, Mississippi and
Eindhoven, the Netherlands. PACCAR competes in the North American Class 8 market, primarily with Kenworth and Peterbilt conventional models. These trucks are assembled at facilities in Chillicothe, Ohio, Denton, Texas, Renton, Washington, Ste.
Therese, Canada and Mexicali, Mexico. PACCAR also competes in the North American Class 6 to 7 markets primarily with Kenworth and Peterbilt conventional models. These trucks are assembled at facilities in Ste. Therese, Canada and in Mexicali,
Mexico. PACCAR competes in the European light/medium market with DAF COE trucks assembled in the United Kingdom by Leyland, one of PACCAR s wholly owned subsidiaries, and participates in the European heavy market with DAF COE trucks assembled
in the Netherlands and the United Kingdom. PACCAR competes in the Brazilian heavy truck market with DAF models assembled at Ponta Grossa in the state of Paran , Brasil. PACCAR competes in the Australian light and heavy truck markets with
Kenworth conventional and COE models assembled at its facility at Bayswater in the state of Victoria, Australia, and DAF COE models assembled in the Netherlands. Commercial truck manufacturing comprises the largest segment of PACCAR s business
and accounts for 77% of total 2015 net sales and revenues.      Substantially all trucks are sold to independent dealers. The Kenworth and
Peterbilt nameplates are marketed and distributed by separate divisions in the U.S. and a foreign subsidiary in Canada. The Kenworth nameplate is also marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Mexico and Australia. The DAF nameplate is
marketed and distributed worldwide by a foreign subsidiary headquartered in the Netherlands and is also marketed and distributed by foreign subsidiaries in Brasil and Australia. The decision to operate as a subsidiary or as a division is incidental
to PACCAR s Truck segment operations and reflects legal, tax and regulatory requirements in the various countries where PACCAR operates.   
         3   

Table of Contents  

   The Truck segment utilizes centrally managed purchasing, information technology, technical research and
testing, treasury and finance functions. Some manufacturing plants in North America produce trucks for more than one nameplate, while other plants produce trucks for only one nameplate, depending on various factors. Best manufacturing practices
within the Company are shared on a routine basis reflecting the similarity of the business models employed by each nameplate.      The
Company s trucks have a reputation for high quality and are essentially custom products, most of which are ordered by dealers according to customer specification. Some units are ordered by dealers for stocking to meet the needs of certain
customers who require immediate delivery or for customers that require chassis to be fitted with specialized bodies. For a significant portion of the Company s truck operations, major components, such as engines, transmissions and axles, as
well as a substantial percentage of other components, are purchased from component manufacturers pursuant to PACCAR and customer specifications. DAF, which is more vertically integrated, manufactures PACCAR engines and axles and a higher percentage
of other components for its heavy truck models. The Company also manufactures engines at its Columbus, Mississippi facility. In 2015, the Company installed PACCAR engines in 40% of the Company s Kenworth and Peterbilt  heavy-duty  trucks in the U.S. and Canada. Engines not manufactured by the Company are purchased from Cummins Inc. (Cummins). The Company purchased a significant portion of its transmissions from Eaton Corporation
Plc. (Eaton) and ZF Friedrichshafen AG (ZF). The Company has long-term agreements with Cummins, Eaton and ZF to provide for continuity of supply. A loss of supply from Cummins, Eaton or ZF, and the resulting interruption in the production of trucks,
would have a material effect on the Company s results. Purchased materials and parts include raw materials, partially processed materials, such as castings, and finished components manufactured by independent suppliers. Raw materials, partially
processed materials and finished components make up approximately 85% of the cost of new trucks. The value of major finished truck components manufactured by independent suppliers ranges from approximately 35% in Europe to approximately 85% in
North America. In addition to materials, the Company s cost of sales includes labor and factory overhead, vehicle delivery and warranty. Accordingly, except for certain factory overhead costs such as depreciation, property taxes and
utilities, the Company s cost of sales are highly correlated to sales.      The Company s DAF subsidiary purchases fully assembled cabs
from a competitor, Renault V.I., for its European light-duty product line pursuant to a joint product development and long-term supply contract. Sales of trucks manufactured with these cabs amounted to approximately 3% of consolidated
revenues in 2015. A short-term loss of supply, and the resulting interruption in the production of these trucks, would not have a material effect on the Company s results of operations. However, a loss of supply for an extended period of
time would either require the Company to contract for an alternative source of supply or to manufacture cabs itself.      Other than these
components, the Company is not limited to any single source for any significant component, although the sudden inability of a supplier to deliver components could have a temporary adverse effect on production of certain products. No significant
shortages of materials or components were experienced in 2015. Manufacturing inventory levels are based upon production schedules, and orders are placed with suppliers accordingly.      Key factors affecting Truck segment earnings include the number of new trucks sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. The Company s sales of new trucks are dependent on the
size of the truck markets served and the Company s share of those markets. Truck segment sales and margins tend to be cyclical based on the level of overall economic activity, the availability of capital and the amount of freight being
transported. The Company s costs for trucks consist primarily of material costs, which are influenced by the price of commodities such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long-term supply agreements to reduce the
variability of the unit cost of purchased materials and finished components. The Company s spending on research and development varies based on product development cycles and government requirements such as the periodic need to meet diesel
engine emissions and vehicle fuel efficiency standards in the various markets served. The Company maintains rigorous control of selling, general and administrative (SG A) expenses and seeks to minimize such costs.   
  There are four principal competitors in the U.S. and Canada commercial truck market. The Company s share of the U.S. and Canadian Class 8 market was
27.4% of retail sales in 2015, and the Company s medium-duty market share was 17.4% in 2015. In Europe, there are six principal competitors in the commercial truck market, including parent companies to two competitors of the Company in the U.S.
In 2015, DAF had a 14.6% share of the Western and Central European heavy-duty market and a 9.0% share of the light/medium market. These markets are highly competitive in price, quality and service. PACCAR is not dependent on any single customer for
its sales. There are no significant seasonal variations in sales.   
         4   

Table of Contents  

   The Peterbilt, Kenworth and DAF nameplates are recognized internationally and play an important role in the
marketing of the Company s truck products. The Company engages in a continuous program of trademark and trade name protection in all marketing areas of the world.      The Company s truck products are subject to noise, emission and safety regulations. Competing manufacturers are subject to the same regulations. The Company believes the cost of complying with noise
and emission regulations will not be detrimental to its business.      The Company had a total production backlog of $5.9 billion at the end of
2015. Within this backlog, orders scheduled for delivery within three months (90 days) are considered to be firm.  The 90-day  backlog approximated $2.8 billion at December 31, 2015,
$3.1 billion at December 31, 2014 and $2.0 billion at December 31, 2013. Production of the year-end 2015 backlog is expected to be substantially completed during 2016.   
   PARTS       The Parts segment includes the
distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles to over 2,000 Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF dealers in over 90 countries around the world. Aftermarket truck parts are sold and delivered to the Company s independent
dealers through the Company s 17 strategically located parts distribution centers (PDCs) located in the U.S., Canada, Europe, Australia, Mexico and South America. Parts are primarily purchased from various suppliers and also manufactured by the
Company. Aftermarket parts inventory levels are determined largely by anticipated customer demand and the need for timely delivery. The Parts segment accounted for 16% of total 2015 net sales and revenues.   
  PACCAR s new 160,000 square-foot PDC in Renton, Washington is under construction and is expected to open in the second quarter of 2016. The new
facility will increase the distribution capacity for the Company s dealers and customers in the northwestern U.S. and western Canada.   
  Key factors affecting Parts segment earnings include the aftermarket parts sold in the markets served and the margins realized on the sales. Aftermarket
parts sales are influenced by the total number of the Company s trucks in service and the average age and mileage of those trucks. To reflect the benefit the Parts segment receives from costs incurred by the Truck segment, certain factory
overhead, research and development, engineering and SG A expenses are allocated from the Truck segment to the Parts segment. The Company s cost for parts sold consists primarily of material costs, which are influenced by the price of
commodities such as steel, copper, aluminum and petroleum. The Company utilizes long-term supply agreements to reduce the variability of the cost of parts sold. The Company maintains rigorous control of SG A expenses and seeks to minimize such
costs.       FINANCIAL SERVICES    
  PACCAR Financial Services (PFS) operates in 22 countries in North America, Europe, Australia and South America through wholly owned finance companies
operating under the PACCAR Financial trade name. PFS also conducts full service leasing operations through wholly owned subsidiaries in North America, Germany and Australia under the PacLease trade name. Selected dealers in North America are
franchised to provide full service leasing. PFS provides its franchisees with equipment financing and administrative support. PFS also operates its own full service lease outlets. PFS s retail loan and lease customers consist of small, medium
and large commercial trucking companies, independent owner/operators and other businesses and acquire their PACCAR trucks principally from independent PACCAR dealers. PFS accounted for 6% of total net sales and revenues and 58% of total assets in
2015.      The Company s finance receivables are classified as dealer wholesale, dealer retail and customer retail segments. The dealer
wholesale segment consists of truck inventory financing to independent PACCAR dealers. The dealer retail segment consists of loans and leases to participating dealers and franchises, which use the proceeds to fund their customers  acquisition
of trucks and related equipment. The customer retail segment consists of loans and leases directly to customers for their acquisition of trucks and related equipment. Customer retail receivables are further segregated by fleet and owner/operator
classes. The fleet class consists of customers operating more than five trucks. All others are considered owner/operators. Similar methods are employed to assess and monitor credit risk for each class.   
  Finance receivables are secured by the trucks and related equipment being financed or leased. The terms of loan and lease contracts generally range from
three to five years depending on the type and use of equipment. Payment is required on dealer inventory financing when the floored truck is sold to a customer or upon maturity of the flooring loan, whichever comes first. Dealer inventory loans
generally mature within one to two years.   
         5   

Table of Contents  

   The Company funds its financial services activities primarily from collections on existing finance
receivables and borrowings in the capital markets. The primary sources of borrowings in the capital markets are commercial paper and medium-term notes issued in public and private offerings and, to a lesser extent, bank loans. An additional source
of funds is loans from other PACCAR companies. PFS attempts to match the maturity and interest rate characteristics of its debt with the maturity and interest rate characteristics of loans and leases.   
  Key factors affecting the earnings of the Financial Services segment include the volume of new loans and leases, the yield earned on the loans and
leases, the costs of funding investments in loans and leases and the ability to collect the amounts owed to PFS. New loan and lease volume is dependent on the volume of new trucks sold by Kenworth, Peterbilt and DAF and the share of those truck
sales that are financed by the Financial Services segment. The Company s Financial Services market share is influenced by the extent of competition in the financing market. PFS s primary competitors include commercial banks and independent
finance and leasing companies.      The revenue earned on loans and leases depends on market interest and lease rates and the ability of PFS to
differentiate itself from the competition by superior industry knowledge and customer service. Dealer inventory loans have variable rates with rates reset monthly based on an index pertaining to the applicable local market. Retail loan and lease
contracts normally have fixed rates over the contract term. PFS obtains funds either through fixed rate borrowings or through variable rate borrowings, a portion of which have been effectively converted to fixed rate through the use of interest-rate
contracts. This enables PFS to obtain a stable spread between the cost of borrowing and the yield on fixed rate contracts over the contract term. Included in Financial Services cost of revenues is depreciation on equipment on operating leases. The
amount of depreciation on operating leases principally depends on the acquisition cost of leased equipment, the term of the leases, which generally ranges from three to five years, and the residual value of the leases, which generally ranges from
30% to 50%. The margin earned is the difference between the revenues on loan and lease contracts and the direct costs of operation, including interest and depreciation.      PFS incurs credit losses when customers are unable to pay the full amounts due under loan and finance lease contracts. PFS takes a conservative approach to underwriting new retail business in order to
minimize credit losses.      The ability of customers to pay their obligations to PFS depends on the state of the general economy, the extent of
freight demand, freight rates and the cost of fuel, among other factors. PFS limits its exposure to any one customer, with no one customer or dealer balance representing over 5% of the aggregate portfolio assets. PFS generally requires a down
payment and secures its interest in the underlying truck collateral and may require other collateral or guarantees. In the event of default, PFS will repossess the truck and sell it in the open market primarily through its dealer network. PFS will
also seek to recover any shortfall between the amounts owed and the amounts recovered from sale of the collateral. The amount of credit losses depends on the rate of default on loans and finance leases and, in the event of repossession, the ability
to recover the amount owed from sale of the collateral which is affected by used truck prices. PFS s experience over the last fifty years financing truck sales has been that periods of economic weakness result in higher past dues and increased
rates of repossession. Used truck prices also tend to fall during periods of economic weakness. As a result, credit losses tend to increase during periods of economic weakness. PFS provides an allowance for credit losses based on specifically
identified customer risks and an analysis of estimated losses inherent in the portfolio, considering the amount of past due accounts, the trends of used truck prices and the economic environment in each of its markets.   
  Financial Services SG A expenses consist primarily of personnel costs associated with originating and servicing the loan and lease portfolios. These
costs vary somewhat depending on overall levels of business activity, but given the ongoing nature of servicing activities, tend to be relatively stable.       OTHER BUSINESSES       Other businesses include a division of the Company which manufactures
industrial winches in two U.S. plants and markets them under the Braden, Carco and Gearmatic nameplates. The markets for these products are highly competitive, and the Company competes with a number of well established firms. Sales of industrial
winches were less than 1% of total net sales and revenues in 2015, 2014 and 2013.      The Braden, Carco and Gearmatic trademarks and trade names
are recognized internationally and play an important role in the marketing of those products.   
         6   

Table of Contents  

    PATENTS       The Company owns numerous patents which relate to all product lines. Although these patents are considered important to the overall conduct of the Company s business, no patent or group of patents is
considered essential to a material part of the Company s business.       REGULATION    
  As a manufacturer of highway trucks, the Company is subject to the National Traffic and Motor Vehicle Safety Act and Federal Motor Vehicle Safety
Standards promulgated by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration as well as environmental laws and regulations in the United States, and is subject to similar regulations in all countries where it has operations and where its trucks are
distributed. In addition, the Company is subject to certain other licensing requirements to do business in the United States and Europe. The Company believes it is in compliance with laws and regulations applicable to safety standards, the
environment and other licensing requirements in all countries where it has operations and where its trucks are distributed.      Information
regarding the effects that compliance with international, federal, state and local provisions regulating the environment have on the Company s capital and operating expenditures and the Company s involvement in environmental cleanup
activities is included in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and the Company s Consolidated Financial Statements in Items 7 and 8, respectively.   
   EMPLOYEES       On
December 31, 2015, the Company had approximately 23,000 employees.       OTHER DISCLOSURES    
  The Company s filings on  Forms 10-K,   10-Q  and  8-K  and any amendments to those reports can be found on the Company s website  www.paccar.com  free of charge as soon as practicable after the report is electronically filed with, or furnished to, the
Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC). In addition, the Company s reports filed with the SEC can be found at  www.sec.gov . The information on the Company s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.   

ITEM 1A.   
   RISK FACTORS.         The following are
significant risks which could have a material negative impact on the Company s financial condition or results of operations.       Business
and Industry Risks        Commercial Truck Market Demand is Variable . The Company s business is highly sensitive to global and
national economic conditions as well as economic conditions in the industries and markets it serves. Negative economic conditions and outlook can materially weaken demand for the Company s equipment and services. The yearly demand for
commercial vehicles may increase or decrease more than overall gross domestic product in markets the Company serves, which are principally North America and Europe. Demand for commercial vehicles may also be affected by the introduction of new
vehicles and technologies by the Company or its competitors.       Competition and Prices.  The Company operates in a highly competitive
environment, which could adversely affect the Company s sales and pricing. Financial results depend largely on the ability to develop, manufacture and market competitive products that profitably meet customer demand.   
   Production Costs and Supplier Capacity.  The Company s products are exposed to variability in material and commodity costs. Commodity or
component price increases and significant shortages of component products may adversely impact the Company s financial results or use of its production capacity. Many of the Company s suppliers also supply automotive manufacturers, and
factors that adversely affect the automotive industry can also have adverse effects on these suppliers and the Company. Supplier delivery performance can be adversely affected if increased demand for these suppliers  products exceeds their
production capacity. Unexpected events, including natural disasters, may increase the Company s cost of doing business or disrupt the Company s or its suppliers  operations.   
         7   

Table of Contents  

    Liquidity Risks, Credit Ratings and Costs of Funds.  Disruptions or volatility in global financial
markets could limit the Company s sources of liquidity, or the liquidity of customers, dealers and suppliers. A lowering of the Company s credit ratings could increase the cost of borrowing and adversely affect access to capital markets.
The Company s Financial Services segment obtains funds for its operations from commercial paper, medium-term notes and bank debt. If the markets for commercial paper, medium-term notes and bank debt do not provide the necessary liquidity in the
future, the Financial Services segment may experience increased costs or may have to limit its financing of retail and wholesale assets. This could result in a reduction of the number of vehicles the Company is able to produce and sell to customers.
      The Financial Services Industry is Highly Competitive.  The Company s Financial Services segment competes with banks, other
commercial finance companies and financial services firms which may have lower costs of borrowing, higher leverage or market share goals that result in a willingness to offer lower interest rates, which may lead to decreased margins, lower market
share or both. A decline in the Company s truck unit sales and a decrease in truck residual values due to lower used truck pricing are also factors which may affect the Company s Financial Services segment.   
   The Financial Services Segment is Subject to Credit Risk.  The Financial Services segment is exposed to the risk of loss arising from the failure
of a customer, dealer or counterparty to meet the terms of the loans, leases and derivative contracts with the Company. Although the financial assets of the Financial Services segment are secured by underlying equipment collateral, in the event a
customer cannot meet its obligations to the Company, there is a risk that the value of the underlying collateral will not be sufficient to recover the amounts owed to the Company, resulting in credit losses.   
   Interest-Rate Risks.  The Financial Services segment is subject to interest-rate risks, because increases in interest rates can reduce demand for
its products, increase borrowing costs and potentially reduce interest margins. PFS uses derivative contracts to match the interest rate characteristics of its debt to the interest rate characteristics of its finance receivables in order to mitigate
the risk of changing interest rates.       Product Liability, Litigation and Regulatory Actions.  The Company s products are subject to
recall for environmental, performance and safety-related issues. Product recalls, lawsuits, regulatory actions or increases in the reserves the Company establishes for contingencies may increase the Company s costs and lower profits. Refer to
Item 3   Legal Proceedings for a discussion of the risk associated with the European Commission investigation. The Company s reputation and its brand names are valuable assets, and claims or regulatory actions, even if unsuccessful or
without merit, could adversely affect the Company s reputation and brand images because of adverse publicity.       Information Technology.
 The Company relies on information technology systems, including the internet and other computer systems, which may be subject to disruptions during the process of upgrading or replacing software, databases or components; power outages; hardware
failures; computer viruses; or outside parties attempting to disrupt the Company s business or gain unauthorized access to the Company s electronic data. The Company maintains protections to guard against such events. If the
Company s computer systems were to be damaged, disrupted or breached, it could result in a negative impact on the Company s operating results and could also cause reputational damage, business disruption or the disclosure of confidential
data.       Political, Regulatory and Economic Risks        Multinational Operations . The Company s global operations are exposed to political, economic and other risks and events beyond its control in the countries in which the Company operates. The
Company may be adversely affected by political instabilities, fuel shortages or interruptions in utility or transportation systems, natural calamities, wars, terrorism and labor strikes. Changes in government monetary or fiscal policies and
international trade policies may impact demand for the Company s products, financial results and competitive position. PACCAR s global operations are subject to extensive trade, competition and anti-corruption laws and regulations that
could impose significant compliance costs.       Environmental Regulations.  The Company s operations are subject to environmental laws
and regulations that impose significant compliance costs. The Company could experience higher research and development costs due to changes in government requirements for its products, including changes in emissions, fuel, greenhouse gas or other
regulations.   
         8   

Table of Contents  

    Currency Exchange and Translation.  The Company s consolidated financial results are reported in
U.S. dollars, while significant operations are denominated in the currencies of other countries. Currency exchange rate fluctuations can affect the Company s assets, liabilities and results of operations through both translation and
transaction risk, as reported in the Company s financial statements. The Company uses certain derivative financial instruments and localized production of its products to reduce, but not eliminate, the effects of foreign currency exchange rate
fluctuations.       Accounting Estimates.  In the preparation of the Company s financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally
accepted accounting principles, management uses estimates and makes judgments and assumptions that affect asset and liability values and the amounts reported as income and expense during the periods presented. Certain of these estimates, judgments
and assumptions, such as residual values on operating leases, the allowance for credit losses, warranty and pension expenses and the provision for income taxes, are particularly sensitive. If actual results are different from estimates used by
management, they may have a material impact on the financial statements. For additional disclosures regarding accounting estimates, see  Critical Accounting Policies  under Item 7 of this Form 10-K.   
   Taxes.  Changes in statutory income tax rates in the countries in which the Company operates impact the Company s effective tax rate. Changes
to other taxes or the adoption of other new tax legislation could affect the Company s provision for income taxes and related tax assets and liabilities.       

ITEM 1B.   
   UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS.         None.

ITEM 2.   
   PROPERTIES.         The Company and its
subsidiaries own and operate manufacturing plants in five U.S. states, three countries in Europe, and in Australia, Brasil, Canada and Mexico. The Company also has 17 parts distribution centers, many sales and service offices, and finance and
administrative offices which are operated in owned or leased premises in these and other locations. Facilities for product testing and research and development are located in Washington state and the Netherlands. The Company s corporate
headquarters is located in owned premises in Bellevue, Washington. The Company considers all of the properties used by its businesses to be suitable for their intended purposes.      The Company invests in facilities, equipment and processes to provide manufacturing and warehouse capacity to meet its customers  needs and improve operating performance.   
  The following summarizes the number of the Company s manufacturing plants and parts distribution centers by geographical location within indicated
industry segments:       

ITEM 3.   
   LEGAL PROCEEDINGS.         In January 2011, the
European Commission (EC) commenced an investigation of all major European commercial vehicle manufacturers, including subsidiaries of the Company, concerning whether such companies participated in agreements or concerted practices to coordinate
their commercial policy in the European Union. On November 20, 2014, the EC issued a Statement of Objections to the manufacturers, including DAF Trucks N.V., its subsidiary DAF Trucks Deutschland GmbH and PACCAR Inc as their parent. The
Statement of Objections is a procedural step in which the EC expressed its preliminary view that the manufacturers   
         9   

Table of Contents  

had participated in anticompetitive practices in the European Union. The EC indicated that it will seek to impose significant fines on the manufacturers. DAF is cooperating with the EC and is
preparing its response to the Statement of Objections. The EC will review the manufacturers  responses before issuing a decision. Any decision would be subject to appeal. The Company is unable to estimate the potential fine at this time and
accordingly, no accrual for any potential fine has been made as of December 31, 2015.      The Company and its subsidiaries are parties to
various lawsuits incidental to the ordinary course of business. Except for the EC matter noted above, management believes that the disposition of such lawsuits will not materially affect the Company s business or financial condition.

ITEM 4.   
   MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES.         Not applicable.
        PART II        

ITEM 5.   
   MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES.      

(a)  
  Market Information, Holders, Dividends, Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans and Performance Graph.     
   Market Information, Holders and Dividends.       Common stock of the Company is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol PCAR. The table below reflects the range of trading prices as reported by The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC and cash
dividends declared. There were 1,713 record holders of the common stock at December 31, 2015.       
    The Company expects to continue paying regular cash dividends, although there is no assurance as to
future dividends because they are dependent upon future earnings, capital requirements and financial conditions.   
   Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans.    
  The following table provides information as of December 31, 2015 regarding compensation plans under which PACCAR equity
securities are authorized for issuance.       

Number of Securities     Granted
and to be Issued on Exercise of Outstanding Options and Other Rights   

Weighted-average  Exercise Price
of Outstanding Options   

Securities Available     for Future
Grant   

Stock compensation plans approved by stockholders    

4,984,226   

$   
    47.23   

15,492,920   
         
    All stock compensation plans have been approved by the stockholders.   
         10   

Table of Contents  

   The number of securities to be issued includes those issuable under the PACCAR Inc Long Term
Incentive Plan (LTI Plan) and the Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors (RSDC Plan). Securities to be issued include 380,771 shares that represent deferred cash awards payable in stock. The weighted-average
exercise price does not include the securities that represent deferred cash awards.      Securities available for future grant are
authorized under the following two plans: (i) 14,637,881 shares under the LTI Plan, and (ii) 855,039 shares under the RSDC Plan.       Stockholder Return Performance Graph.       The following line graph compares
the yearly percentage change in the cumulative total stockholder return on the Company s common stock, to the cumulative total return of the Standard   Poor s Composite 500 Stock Index and the return of the industry peer groups of
companies identified in the graph (the  Current Peer Group Index  and the  Prior Peer Group Index ) for the last five fiscal years ended December 31, 2015. Effective January 1, 2015, the Company revised its
peer group to include CNH Industrial N.V. (the parent company of Iveco) and removed Scania AB, which was acquired in 2014 and is no longer publicly traded. Standard   Poor s has calculated a return for each company in the peer
group indices weighted according to its respective capitalization at the beginning of each period with dividends reinvested on a monthly basis. Management believes that the identified companies and methodology used in the graph for the peer
group indices provides a better comparison than other indices available. The Current Peer Group Index consists of AGCO Corporation, Caterpillar Inc., Cummins Inc., Dana Holding Corporation, Deere   Company, Eaton Corporation, Meritor
Inc., Navistar International Corporation, Oshkosh Corporation, AB Volvo and CNH Industrial N.V. CNH Industrial N.V. is included from September 30, 2013, when it began trading on the New York Stock Exchange. The Prior Peer Group Index
consists of AGCO Corporation, Caterpillar Inc., Cummins Inc., Dana Holding Corporation, Deere   Company, Eaton Corporation, Meritor Inc., Navistar International Corporation, Oshkosh Corporation, AB Volvo and Scania AB. The comparison
assumes that $100 was invested December 31, 2010, in the Company s common stock and in the stated indices and assumes reinvestment of dividends.       

11   

Table of Contents  

(b)  
  Use of Proceeds from Registered Securities.        Not applicable.       

(c)  
  Purchases of Equity Securities by the Issuer and Affiliated Purchasers.        On December 6, 2011, the Company s Board of Directors approved a plan to repurchase up to $300 million of the Company s outstanding common stock. As of September 21, 2015, all of the
authorized shares had been repurchased under this plan. On September 23, 2015, the Company s Board of Directors approved a new plan to repurchase up to an additional $300 million of the Company s outstanding common stock. As of
December 31, 2015, $136.3 million of shares had been purchased under this plan. The following are details of repurchases made under the new plan for the fourth quarter of 2015:   

ITEM 6.   
   SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA.          
 
         12   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7.   
   MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS.      
   OVERVIEW:       PACCAR is a global
technology company whose Truck segment includes the design and manufacture of high-quality, light-, medium- and heavy-duty commercial trucks. In North America, trucks are sold under the Kenworth and Peterbilt nameplates, in Europe, under the DAF
nameplate and in Australia and South America, under the Kenworth and DAF nameplates. The Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles. The Company s Financial Services segment derives
its earnings primarily from financing or leasing PACCAR products in North America, Europe and Australia. The Company s Other business includes the manufacturing and marketing of industrial winches.   
  Consolidated net sales and revenues of $19.12 billion in 2015 were the highest in the Company s history. The increase from $18.99 billion in
2014 was primarily due to stronger industry truck sales in the U.S. and Europe, partially offset by the effects of translating weaker foreign currencies, primarily the euro, to the U.S. dollar.   
  In 2015, PACCAR earned net income for the 77th consecutive year. Net income in 2015 of $1.60 billion was the highest in the Company s history,
increasing from $1.36 billion in 2014. The results reflect increased truck sales in the U.S. and Europe and strong aftermarket parts and financial services results. The U.S. truck market benefited from record freight demand and expansion of industry
fleet capacity. Earnings per diluted share were $4.51 compared to $3.82 in 2014.      The Company is expanding its range of PACCAR engines in
North America with the introduction of the PACCAR MX-11 engine, with an output of up to 430 HP and 1,550 lb.-ft. of torque. The PACCAR MX-11 is scheduled to be available in Kenworth and Peterbilt trucks in early 2016. The PACCAR MX-11
engine is designed to deliver excellent performance and fuel economy, industry-leading durability and reliability, and a quiet operating environment for the driver.      Kenworth and Peterbilt launched new vehicle technologies that provide customers real-time diagnostic information to enhance their vehicle operating performance. Kenworth  TruckTech+  and Peterbilt
 SmartLinq  diagnostic systems are in production on new Class 8 trucks equipped with the PACCAR MX-13 engine. In addition, Predictive Cruise Control is in production for Kenworth T680 and T660 trucks and Peterbilt Model 579 and Model 567
trucks, specified with the PACCAR MX-13 engine. The new driver assist systems integrate cruise control with global positioning system data to anticipate road contours, enabling the PACCAR MX-13 engine to achieve outstanding fuel economy.   
  Kenworth and Peterbilt have developed additional technologies to enhance customers  driver performance and profitability. Driver Performance
Assistant and Driver Shift Aid are standard equipment on Kenworth T680 and T660 trucks and Peterbilt Model 579 and Model 567 trucks, specified with the PACCAR MX-13 engine. Driver Performance Assistant provides drivers with real-time coaching on
driving behavior and a scoring system to optimize driver performance and fuel economy. Driver Shift Aid provides drivers in vehicles with manual transmissions a visual cue to shift at the optimal RPM and engine torque to maximize fuel economy.
     DAF introduced the new LF 2016 Edition which features enhancements to the PACCAR PX-5 4.5 liter engine, resulting in up to 5% better fuel
efficiency. In addition, a new DAF aerodynamic package results in 4% better fuel efficiency, while advanced technologies such as Lane Departure Warning System, Advanced Emergency Braking System, Forward Collision Warning and Adaptive Cruise Control
enhance comfort and safety.      PACCAR Parts added 18 dealer-owned TRP stores in 2015, building on the success of PACCAR Parts  TRP brand of
aftermarket parts for all makes of medium- and heavy-duty trucks, trailers and buses. TRP stores are strategically located to bring TRP products and technical expertise close to the customer. PACCAR s new 160,000 square-foot distribution center
in Renton, Washington is under construction and is expected to open in the second quarter of 2016.      The PACCAR Financial Services (PFS) group
of companies has operations covering four continents and 22 countries. The global breadth of PFS and its rigorous credit application process support a portfolio of loans and leases with total assets of $12.25 billion that earned pre-tax profit of
$362.6 million. PFS issued $1.92 billion in medium-term notes during the year to support portfolio growth.   
         13   

Table of Contents  

   In 2015, the Company s capital investments were $308.4 million compared to $223.1 million in 2014, and
research and development (R D) expenses were $239.8 million in 2015 compared to $215.6 million in 2014.        Truck Outlook
       Truck industry retail sales in the U.S. and Canada in 2016 are expected to be 230,000 to 260,000 units compared to 278,400 in 2015. In
Europe, the 2016 truck industry registrations for over 16-tonne vehicles are projected to increase to a range of 260,000 to 290,000 units, compared to the 269,100 truck registrations in 2015. In South America, heavy-duty truck industry sales were
74,000 units in 2015, and the 2016 heavy-duty truck industry sales are estimated to be in a range of 70,000 to 80,000 units.        Parts
Outlook        In 2016, PACCAR Parts sales in North America are expected to increase 3-5%, reflecting steady economic growth and high fleet
utilization. In 2016, Europe aftermarket sales are expected to increase 3-5%, reflecting good freight markets and PACCAR Parts  innovative customer service programs. The U.S. dollar value of sales in Europe may continue to be affected by recent
declines in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar.        Financial Services Outlook     
  Based on the truck market outlook, average earning assets in 2016 are expected to be comparable to the record levels achieved in 2015. Current strong
levels of freight tonnage, freight rates and fleet utilization are contributing to customers  profitability and cash flow. If current freight transportation conditions decline due to weaker economic conditions, then past due accounts, truck
repossessions and credit losses would likely increase from the current low levels and new business volumes would likely decline.   
    Capital Spending and R D Outlook        Capital investments in 2016 are expected to be $325 to $375 million, and R D is expected to be $240 to $270 million focused on enhanced aftermarket support, manufacturing facilities and new
product development.      See the Forward-Looking Statements section of Management s Discussion and Analysis for factors that may affect
these outlooks.   
         14   

Table of Contents  

    RESULTS OF OPERATIONS:    
   
    The following provides an analysis of the results of operations for the Company s three reportable segments - Truck,
Parts and Financial Services. Where possible, the Company has quantified the impact of factors identified in the following discussion and analysis. In cases where it is not possible to quantify the impact of factors, the Company lists them in
estimated order of importance. Factors for which the Company is unable to specifically quantify the impact include market demand, fuel prices, freight tonnage and economic conditions affecting the Company s results of operations.   
   2015 Compared to 2014:         Truck
       The Company s Truck segment accounted for 77% of total revenues for both 2015 and 2014.   
   
    The Company s worldwide truck net sales and revenues increased to $14.78 billion from $14.59 billion in 2014,
primarily due to higher truck deliveries in the U.S and Europe. The effects of translating weaker foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, primarily the euro, reduced 2015 worldwide truck net sales and revenues by $940.0 million.   
  Truck segment income before income taxes and pre-tax return on revenues reflect higher truck unit deliveries and improved gross margins in the U.S. and
Europe. The effects on income before income taxes of translating weaker foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, primarily the euro, were largely offset by lower costs of North American MX engine components imported from Europe.   
         15   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s new truck deliveries are summarized below:   
   
    Truck selling, general and administrative expenses (SG A) for 2015 decreased to $192.6 million from
$198.2 million in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to currency translation effect ($21.8 million), mostly related to a decline in the value of the euro relative   
         16   

Table of Contents  

to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher promotion and marketing costs ($11.6 million) and higher salaries and related expenses ($7.6 million). As a percentage of sales, SG A
decreased to 1.3% in 2015 compared to 1.4% in 2014, reflecting higher sales volume.        Parts     
  The Company s Parts segment accounted for 16% of total revenues for both 2015 and 2014.   

Higher market demand, primarily in the U.S. and Canada and Europe, resulted in increased aftermarket parts sales volume of $123.5 million and related
cost of sales of $69.1 million.          

Average aftermarket parts sales prices increased sales by $52.4 million reflecting improved price realization in the U.S. and Canada ($31.1 million)
and Europe ($21.3 million).          

Average aftermarket parts direct costs increased $2.9 million due to higher material costs.      

Warehouse and other indirect costs increased $7.3 million, primarily due to additional costs to support higher sales volume.

The currency translation effect on sales and cost of sales reflects a decline in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, primarily
the euro.          
 
         17   

Table of Contents  

   Parts SG A expense for 2015 decreased to $194.7 million from $207.5 million in 2014. The decrease was
primarily due to the effects of currency translation ($21.7 million), mostly related to a decline in the value of the euro relative to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher salaries and related expenses ($10.3 million). As a percentage of
sales, Parts SG A decreased to 6.4% in 2015 from 6.7% in 2014.        Financial Services     
  The Company s Financial Services segment accounted for 6% of total revenues for both 2015 and 2014.   
   
    New loan and lease volume was $4.44 billion in 2015 compared to $4.46 billion in 2014. PFS finance market share on new
PACCAR truck sales was 25.9% in 2015 compared to 27.7% in 2014 due to increased competition.      PFS revenue decreased to $1.17 billion in 2015
from $1.20 billion in 2014. The decrease was primarily due to the effects of translating weaker foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar and lower yields, partially offset by revenues on higher average earning asset balances. The effects of currency
translation lowered PFS revenues by $79.3 million for 2015. PFS income before income taxes decreased to $362.6 million from $370.4 million in 2014, primarily due to the effects of translating weaker foreign currencies into the U.S. dollar and lower
yields, partially offset by higher average earning asset balances and lower borrowing rates. The effects of currency translation lowered PFS income before income taxes by $21.9 million for 2015.   
         18   

Table of Contents  

   The major factors for the changes in interest and fees, interest and other borrowing expenses and finance
margin between 2015 and 2014 are outlined below:       
 
         19   

Table of Contents  

   The major factors for the changes in operating lease, rental and other revenues, depreciation and other
expenses and lease margin between 2015 and 2014 are outlined below:       

A higher volume of used truck sales increased operating lease, rental and other revenues by $9.5 million and increased depreciation and other expenses
by $11.9 million.          

Results on returned lease assets increased depreciation and other expenses by $7.7 million, primarily due to lower gains on sales of returned lease
units.          

Average operating lease assets increased $188.2 million in 2015 (excluding foreign exchange effects), which increased revenues by $17.3 million and
related depreciation and other expenses by $13.6 million.          

Revenue per asset increased $8.1 million primarily due to higher fee income and higher rental rates, partially offset by lower fuel revenue. Cost per
asset increased $4.6 million, primarily due to higher depreciation expense, partially offset by lower fuel expense.          

The currency translation effects reflect a decline in the value of foreign currencies relative to the U.S. dollar, primarily the euro.
        The following table summarizes the provision for losses on receivables and net charge-offs:   
   
    The provision for losses on receivables was $12.4 million in 2015, a decrease of $3.0 million compared to 2014, mainly
due to improved portfolio performance in Europe and the effects of translating weaker foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher portfolio balances in Europe and the U.S. and Canada.   
  The Company modifies loans and finance leases as a normal part of its Financial Services operations. The Company may modify loans and finance leases for
commercial reasons or for credit reasons. Modifications for commercial reasons are changes to contract terms for customers that are not considered to be in financial difficulty. Insignificant delays are modifications extending terms up to three
months for customers experiencing some short-term financial stress, but not considered to be in financial difficulty. Modifications for credit reasons are changes to contract terms for customers considered to be in financial difficulty. The
Company s modifications typically result in granting more time to pay the contractual amounts owed and charging a fee and interest for the term of the modification. When considering whether to modify customer accounts for credit reasons, the
Company evaluates the creditworthiness of the customers and modifies those accounts that the Company considers likely to perform under the modified terms. When the Company modifies loans and finance leases for credit reasons and grants a concession,
the modifications are classified as troubled debt restructurings (TDR).   
         20   

Table of Contents  

   The post-modification balance of accounts modified during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014
are summarized below:       

($ in millions)   
      
   2015   

2014  

RECORDED INVESTMENT   

% OF TOTAL PORTFOLIO*   

RECORDED INVESTMENT  

% OF TOTAL PORTFOLIO*  

Commercial   
      
   $   
   166.8   

2.3   
   %    
     
  $  
  181.6  

2.5  
  %    
 
    Insignificant delay   

70.0   

1.0   
   %    

64.1  

.9  
  %    
 
    Credit - no concession   

36.6   

.5   
   %    

31.5  

.4  
  %    
 
    Credit - TDR   

44.4   

.5   
   %    

26.4  

.4  
  %    

$   
   317.8   

4.3   
   %    
     
  $  
  303.6  

4.2  
  %    

*  Recorded investment immediately after modification as a percentage of the year-end retail portfolio
balance.   

In 2015, total modification activity increased
compared to 2014, primarily due to higher modifications for credit - TDRs, partially offset by the effects of translating weaker foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar and lower commercial modifications. TDR modifications increased primarily due to
contract modifications in Mexico. The decrease in commercial modifications reflects lower volumes of refinancing.         

The following table summarizes the Company s 30+ days past due accounts:  

At December 31,    

2015   

2014  

Percentage of retail loan and lease accounts 30+ days past due:   

U.S. and Canada   

.3   
   %    

.1  
  %    
 
      Europe   

.7   
   %    

1.1  
  %    
 
      Mexico and Australia   

1.3   
   %    

2.0  
  %    

Worldwide   

.5   
   %    

.5  
  %    

Accounts 30+ days past due were .5% at December 31, 2015 and 2014, as higher past due accounts in the U.S.
and Canada were offset by lower past dues in all other markets. The Company continues to focus on maintaining low past due balances.         

When the Company modifies a 30+ days past due account, the customer is then generally considered current under the
revised contractual terms. The Company modified $2.6 million of accounts worldwide during the fourth quarter of 2015 and $4.0 million during the fourth quarter of 2014 that were 30+ days past due and became current at the time of modification. Had
these accounts not been modified and continued to not make payments, the pro forma percentage of retail loan and lease accounts 30+ days past due would have been as follows:         

At December 31,    

2015   

2014  

Pro forma percentage of retail loan and lease accounts 30+ days past due:   

U.S. and Canada     

.3   
   %    

.1  
  %    
 
        Europe     

.7   
   %    

1.2  
  %    
 
      Mexico and Australia   

1.6   
   %    

2.3  
  %    

Worldwide   

.6   
   %    

.6  
  %    

Modifications of accounts in prior quarters that were more than 30 days past due at the time of modification are included
in past dues if they were not performing under the modified terms at December 31, 2015 and 2014. The effect on the allowance for credit losses from such modifications was not significant at December 31, 2015 and 2014.   
  The Company s 2015 and 2014 pre-tax return on average earning assets for Financial Services was 3.2% and 3.3%, respectively.   
         21   

Table of Contents  

     Other        Other includes the winch business as well as sales, income and expenses not attributable to a reportable segment, including a portion of corporate expense. Other sales represents less than 1% of
consolidated net sales and revenues for 2015 and 2014. Other SG A was $58.7 million in 2015 and $59.5 million in 2014. The decrease in SG A was primarily due to lower salaries and related expenses. Other income (loss) before tax was a loss
of $43.2 million in 2015 compared to a loss of $31.9 million in 2014. The higher loss in 2015 was primarily due to lower income before tax from the winch business which has been affected by lower oilfield related business.   
  Investment income was $21.8 million in 2015 compared to $22.3 million in 2014. The lower investment income in 2015 was primarily due to the effects of
translating weaker foreign currencies to the U.S. dollar, partially offset by higher realized gains and average portfolio balances.   
    Income Taxes        The 2015 effective
income tax rate of 31.4% decreased from 32.7% in 2014. The decrease in the effective tax rate was primarily due to an increase in research tax credits in 2015.       
    The Company s worldwide truck net sales and revenues increased to $14.59 billion from $13.0 billion in 2013,
primarily due to higher truck deliveries in the U.S. and Canada, higher price realization in Europe related to higher content Euro 6 emission vehicles, partially offset by lower truck deliveries in Europe and Mexico.   
  Truck segment income before income taxes and pre-tax return on revenues reflect higher truck unit deliveries and improved price realization in the U.S.
and Canada and lower R D spending, partially offset by lower deliveries in Europe and Mexico.   
         22   

Table of Contents  

   The Company s new truck deliveries are summarized below:   

Truck delivery volume reflects higher truck deliveries in the U.S. and Canada which resulted in higher sales ($1,798.6 million) and cost of sales
($1,511.5 million), partially offset by lower truck deliveries in Europe and Mexico which resulted in lower sales ($564.3 million) and costs of sales ($457.8 million).      

Average truck sales prices increased sales by $477.4 million, primarily due to higher content Euro 6 emission vehicles in Europe ($274.9 million),
improved price realization in the U.S. and Canada ($146.6 million) and in Mexico ($31.9 million).          

Average cost per truck increased cost of sales by $408.6 million, primarily due to higher content Euro 6 emission vehicles in Europe ($352.6 million).

Factory overhead and other indirect costs increased $63.6 million, primarily due to higher salaries and related costs ($59.5 million) to support
higher sales volume, higher depreciation expense ($13.0 million), partially offset by lower Euro 6 project expenses ($17.4 million).          

Operating lease revenues and cost of sales decreased due to lower average asset balances as lease maturities exceeded new lease volume.

23   

Table of Contents  

   Truck SG A expenses for 2014 decreased to $198.2 million from $214.1 million in 2013. The decrease
was primarily due to lower promotion and marketing costs. As a percentage of sales, SG A decreased to 1.4% in 2014 compared to 1.6% in 2013, reflecting higher sales volume and ongoing cost controls.   
    Parts        The Company s Parts
segment accounted for 16% of total revenues for both 2014 and 2013.       

Higher market demand in all markets resulted in increased aftermarket parts sales volume of $187.8 million and related cost of sales by $120.0 million.

Average aftermarket parts sales prices increased sales by $82.5 million reflecting improved price realization in all markets.

Average aftermarket parts direct costs increased $57.8 million due to higher material costs in all markets.      

Warehouse and other indirect costs increased $8.0 million primarily due to additional costs to support higher sales volume.

Parts SG A expense for 2014 increased to $207.5 million from $204.1 million in 2013. The increase was primarily due to higher salaries and related
expenses. As a percentage of sales, Parts SG A decreased to 6.7% in 2014 from 7.2% in 2013, reflecting higher sales volume.   
         24   

Table of Contents  

     Financial Services        The Company s Financial Services segment accounted for 6% and 7% of total revenues for 2014 and 2013, respectively.       
    In 2014, new loan and lease volume of $4.46 billion increased 3% compared to $4.32 billion in 2013. PFS finance market
share on new PACCAR truck sales was 27.7% in 2014 compared to 29.2% in 2013 due to increased competition.      PFS revenue of $1.20 billion in
2014 was comparable to $1.17 billion in 2013. PFS income before income taxes increased to a record $370.4 million compared to $340.2 million in 2013, primarily due to higher finance and lease margins related to increased average earning asset
balances.   
         25   

Table of Contents  

   The major factors for the changes in interest and fees, interest and other borrowing expenses and finance
margin between 2014 and 2013 are outlined below:       
 
         26   

Table of Contents  

A lower volume of used truck sales decreased operating lease, rental and other revenues by $20.5 million and decreased depreciation and other expenses
by $20.7 million.          

Revenue per asset increased $10.5 million due to higher rental rates, partially offset by lower fee income. Cost per asset increased $15.7 million due
to higher depreciation and maintenance expenses.         The following table summarizes the provision for losses on receivables and
net charge-offs:       

2014  

2013  

($ in millions)      
      
  PROVISION FOR LOSSES ON RECEIVABLES  

NET  CHARGE-OFFS   

PROVISION FOR LOSSES ON RECEIVABLES  

NET  CHARGE-OFFS   

U.S. and Canada   
      
  $  
  6.1  

$  
  5.1  

$  
  1.9  

$  
  .5  

Europe   

5.4  

6.5  

7.4  

11.0  

Mexico and Australia   

3.9  

4.4  

3.6  

2.1  

$  
  15.4  

$  
          16.0  

$  
  12.9  

$  
  13.6  

The provision for losses on receivables was $15.4
million in 2014, an increase of $2.5 million compared to 2013, mainly due to a higher portfolio balance in the U.S., higher past dues resulting from a weaker mining industry in Australia, partially offset by improved portfolio performance across
other markets.         The Company modifies loans and finance leases as a normal
part of its Financial Services operations. The Company may modify loans and finance leases for commercial reasons or for credit reasons. Modifications for commercial reasons are changes to contract terms for customers that are not considered to be
in financial difficulty. Insignificant delays are modifications extending terms up to three months for customers experiencing some short-term financial stress, but not considered to be in financial difficulty. Modifications for credit reasons are
changes to contract terms for customers considered to be in financial difficulty. The Company s modifications typically result in granting more time to pay the contractual amounts owed and charging a fee and interest for the term of the
modification. When considering whether to modify customer accounts for credit reasons, the Company evaluates the creditworthiness of the customers and modifies those accounts that the Company considers likely to perform under the modified terms.
When the Company modifies loans and finance leases for credit reasons and grants a concession, the modifications are classified as troubled debt restructurings (TDR).      
  The post-modification balances of accounts modified during the years ended December 31, 2014 and 2013 are summarized below:  

($ in millions)   
      
  2014  

2013  

RECORDED INVESTMENT  

% OF TOTAL  
    PORTFOLIO*   

RECORDED INVESTMENT  

% OF TOTAL PORTFOLIO*  

Commercial   
      
  $  
  181.6  

2.5  
  %   
     
  $  
  233.0  

3.2  
  %    
 
    Insignificant delay   

64.1  

.9  
  %   

110.1  

1.6  
  %    
 
    Credit - no concession   

31.5  

.4  
  %   

24.2  

.3  
  %    
 
    Credit - TDR   

26.4  

.4  
  %   

13.6  

.2  
  %    

$  
  303.6  

4.2  
  %   
     
  $  
  380.9  

5.3  
  %    

*  
  Recorded investment immediately after modification as a percentage of the year-end retail portfolio balance.     
  In 2014, total modification activity decreased compared to 2013 primarily due to lower modifications for commercial reasons and insignificant delays,
partially offset by an increase in TDR modifications. The decrease in commercial modifications primarily reflects lower levels of additional equipment financed and end-of-contract modifications. The decline in modifications for insignificant delays
reflects 2013 extensions granted to two customers in Australia primarily due to business disruptions arising from flooding. TDR modifications increased primarily due to a contract modification for a large customer in the U.S.   
         27   

Table of Contents  

   The following table summarizes the Company s 30+ days past due accounts:   

At December 31,    
      
              2014  

2013  

Percentage of retail loan and lease accounts 30+ days past due:   

U.S. and Canada   

.1  
  %   

.3  
  %    
 
    Europe   

1.1  
  %   

.7  
  %    
 
    Mexico and Australia   

2.0  
  %   

1.4  
  %    

Worldwide   

.5  
  %   

.5  
  %    

Accounts 30+ days past due were .5% at December 31, 2014 and 2013. The higher past dues in Europe, Mexico and Australia were offset by lower past dues in
the U.S. and Canada. The Company continues to focus on maintaining low past due balances.  

When the Company modifies a 30+ days past due
account, the customer is then generally considered current under the revised contractual terms. The Company modified $4.0 million of accounts worldwide during the fourth quarter of 2014 and $4.9 million during the fourth quarter of 2013 that were
30+ days past due and became current at the time of modification. Had these accounts not been modified and continued to not make payments, the pro forma percentage of retail loan and lease accounts 30+ days past due would have been as
follows:         

At December 31,      
      
    2014    

2013    

Pro forma percentage of retail loan and lease accounts 30+ days past due:   

U.S. and Canada   

.1  
  %   

.3  
  %    
 
    Europe   

1.2  
  %   

.8  
  %    
 
    Mexico and Australia   

2.3  
  %   

1.7  
  %    

Worldwide   

.6  
  %   

.6  
  %    
    Modifications of accounts in prior quarters that were more than 30 days past due at the time of modification are included
in past dues if they were not performing under the modified terms at December 31, 2014 and 2013. The effect on the allowance for credit losses from such modifications was not significant at December 31, 2014 and 2013.   
  The Company s 2014 and 2013 pre-tax return on average earning assets for Financial Services was 3.3% and 3.2%, respectively.   
    Other        Other includes the winch
business as well as sales, income and expenses not attributable to a reportable segment, including a portion of corporate expense. Other sales represent approximately 1% of consolidated net sales and revenues for 2014 and 2013. Other SG A was
$59.5 million in 2014 and $47.1 million in 2013. The increase in SG A was primarily due to higher salaries and related expenses of $11.4 million. Other income (loss) before tax was a loss of $31.9 million in 2014 compared to a loss of $26.5
million in 2013. The higher loss in 2014 was primarily due to higher salaries and related expenses and lower income before tax from the winch business.      Investment income was $22.3 million in 2014 compared to $28.6 million in 2013. The lower investment income in 2014 primarily reflects lower yields on investments due to lower market interest rates,
partially offset by higher average investment balances.   
         28   

Table of Contents  

     Income Taxes        The 2014 effective income tax rate of 32.7% increased from 30.9% in 2013. The increase in the effective tax rate was primarily due to a higher proportion of income generated in higher taxed jurisdictions.
      
     2015 Compared to 2014:        Operating activities:  Cash provided by operations increased $432.4 million to $2.56 billion in 2015 compared to $2.12 billion in 2014. Higher operating cash flow reflects $245.2 million of higher
net income and $253.8 million from inventory as there was $64.3 million in net inventory reductions in 2015 vs. $189.5 million in net inventory purchases in 2014. In addition, higher cash inflows reflects $176.6 million from accounts
receivables as collections exceeded sales in 2015 ($105.3 million) compared to sales exceeding collections in 2014 ($71.3 million). A lower increase in Financial Services sales-type finance leases and dealer direct loans on new trucks also
contributed $126.5 million. These cash inflows were partially offset by cash outflows of $414.9 million from accounts payable and accrued expenses, where payments from goods and services exceeded purchases in 2015 ($162.6 million) compared to
purchases exceeding payments in 2014 ($252.3 million).   
         29   

Table of Contents  

    Investing activities:  Cash used in investing activities of $1.97 billion in 2015 increased $443.0
million from the $1.53 billion used in 2014, primarily due to higher cash used in the acquisitions of equipment for operating leases of $199.4 million, $169.7 million higher net purchases of marketable securities and $116.0 million in higher net
originations of retail loans and direct financing leases in 2015. These outflows were partially offset by higher proceeds from asset disposals of $53.3 million.       Financing activities:  Cash used in financing activities was $196.5 million in 2015 compared to $520.5 million in 2014. The Company paid $680.5 million of dividends in 2015 compared to $623.8
million paid in 2014, an increase of $56.7 million. In addition, the Company repurchased 3.8 million shares of common stock for $201.6 million in 2015 compared to .7 million shares for $42.7 million in 2014. In 2015, the Company issued
$1.99 billion of term debt and $250.7 million of commercial paper and short-term bank loans and repaid maturing term debt of $1.58 billion. In 2014, the Company issued $1.65 billion of term debt and $349.1 million of commercial paper and short-term
bank loans and repaid maturing term debt of $1.88 billion. This resulted in cash provided by borrowing activities of $663.8 million in 2015, $546.9 million higher than cash provided by borrowing activities of $116.9 million in 2014.  
       2014 Compared to 2013:    
   Operating activities:  Cash provided by operations decreased $252.1 million to $2.12 billion in 2014 compared to $2.38 billion in 2013. Lower
operating cash flow reflects a higher increase in Financial Services segment wholesale receivables of $150.3 million and a higher increase in net purchases of inventories of $149.9 million. In addition, lower cash inflows resulted from a reduction
in liabilities for residual value guarantees (RVG) and deferred revenues of $138.7 million, primarily due to a lower volume of new RVG contracts compared to 2013, and $54.9 million in higher pension contributions. These outflows were partially
offset by $187.5 million of higher net income and $74.5 million of higher depreciation on property, plant and equipment.       Investing
activities:  Cash used in investing activities of $1.53 billion in 2014 decreased $619.1 million from the $2.15 billion used in 2013, primarily due to lower net new loan and lease originations of $257.0 million, lower payments for property, plant
and equipment of $212.4 million and lower cash used in the acquisitions of equipment for operating leases of $123.1 million.       Financing
activities:  Cash used in financing activities was $520.5 million for 2014 compared to cash provided by financing activities of $273.8 million in 2013. The Company paid $623.8 million of dividends in 2014 compared to $283.1 million paid
in 2013, an increase of $340.7 million. The higher dividends in 2014 reflect a special dividend declared in 2013 and paid in early 2014. In 2013, there was no special dividend payment, as the 2012 special dividend was declared and paid in 2012. The
Company also repurchased .7 million shares of common stock for $42.7 million in 2014. In 2014, the Company issued $1.65 billion in term debt and $349.1 million of commercial paper and short-term bank loans and repaid term debt of $1.88 billion.
In 2013, the Company issued $2.13 billion in term debt and repaid term debt of $568.9 million and reduced its outstanding commercial paper and bank loans by $1.04 billion. This resulted in cash provided by borrowing activities of $116.9 million,
$409.0 million lower than cash provided by borrowing activities of $525.9 million in 2013.          Credit Lines and Other:    
  The Company has line of credit arrangements of $3.43 billion, of which $3.26 billion were unused at December 31, 2015. Included in these
arrangements are $3.0 billion of syndicated bank facilities, of which $1.0 billion expires in June 2016, $1.0 billion expires in June 2019 and $1.0 billion expires in June 2020. The Company intends to replace these credit
facilities on or before expiration with facilities of similar amounts and duration. These credit facilities are maintained primarily to provide backup liquidity for commercial paper borrowings and maturing medium-term notes. There were no borrowings
under the syndicated bank facilities for the year ended December 31, 2015.      On September 21, 2015, the Company completed the
repurchase of $300.0 million of the Company s common stock under authorizations approved in December 2011. On September 23, 2015, PACCAR s Board of Directors approved the repurchase of an additional $300.0 million of the
Company s common stock, and as of December 31, 2015, $136.3 million of shares have been repurchased pursuant to the 2015 authorization.      At December 31, 2015 and December 31, 2014, the Company had cash and cash equivalents and marketable debt securities of $1.82 billion and $1.60 billion, respectively, which are
considered indefinitely reinvested in foreign subsidiaries. The Company   
         30   

Table of Contents  

periodically repatriates foreign earnings that are not indefinitely reinvested. Dividends paid by foreign subsidiaries to the U.S. parent were $.24 billion, $.24 billion and
$.19 billion in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Company believes that its U.S. cash and cash equivalents and marketable debt securities, future operating cash flow and access to the capital markets, along with periodic repatriation of
foreign earnings, will be sufficient to meet U.S. liquidity requirements.        Truck, Parts and Other     
  The Company provides funding for working capital, capital expenditures, R D, dividends, stock repurchases and other business initiatives and
commitments primarily from cash provided by operations. Management expects this method of funding to continue in the future.      Investments for
property, plant and equipment in 2015 increased to $306.5 million from $220.8 million in 2014, primarily due to higher investments by DAF in Europe and the construction of a new parts distribution center in Renton, Washington. Over the past
decade, the Company s combined investments in worldwide capital projects and R D totaled $5.92 billion, which have significantly increased the operating capacity and efficiency of its facilities and the competitive advantage of the
Company s premium products.      In 2016, capital investments are expected to be $325 to $375 million, and R D is expected to be $240 to
$270 million focused on enhanced aftermarket support, manufacturing facilities and new product development.      The Company conducts business in
Spain, Italy, Portugal, Ireland, Greece, Russia, Ukraine and certain other countries which have been experiencing significant financial stress, fiscal or political strain and the corresponding potential default. The Company routinely monitors its
financial exposure to global financial conditions, global counterparties and operating environments. As of December 31, 2015, the Company had finance and trade receivables in these countries of approximately 1% of consolidated total
assets. In addition, the Company s exposures in these countries were insignificant for both derivative counterparty credit and marketable debt security investments in corporate or sovereign government securities as of December 31, 2015.
       Financial Services     
  The Company funds its financial services activities primarily from collections on existing finance receivables and borrowings in the capital markets. The
primary sources of borrowings in the capital markets are commercial paper and medium-term notes issued in the public markets and, to a lesser extent, bank loans. An additional source of funds is loans from other PACCAR companies.   
  The Company issues commercial paper for a portion of its funding in its Financial Services segment. Some of this commercial paper is converted to fixed
interest rate debt through the use of interest-rate swaps, which are used to manage interest-rate risk.      In November 2015, the
Company s U.S. finance subsidiary, PACCAR Financial Corp. (PFC), filed a shelf registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The total amount of medium-term notes outstanding for PFC as of December 31, 2015 was $4.40 billion. The
registration expires in November 2018 and does not limit the principal amount of debt securities that may be issued during that period.      As of
December 31, 2015, the Company s European finance subsidiary, PACCAR Financial Europe, had  269.0 million available for issuance under a  1.50 billion medium-term note program listed on the Professional Securities Market of
the London Stock Exchange. This program replaced an expiring program in the second quarter of 2015 and is renewable annually through the filing of new listing particulars.      In April 2011, PACCAR Financial Mexico (PFM) registered a 10.00 billion peso medium-term note and commercial paper program with the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores. The registration expires
in April 2016 and limits the amount of commercial paper (up to one year) to 5.00 billion pesos. At December 31, 2015, 8.04 billion pesos remained available for issuance. PFM intends to file a new program in April 2016.   
  In the event of a future significant disruption in the financial markets, the Company may not be able to issue replacement commercial paper. As a result,
the Company is exposed to liquidity risk from the shorter maturity of short-term borrowings paid to lenders compared to the longer timing of receivable collections from customers. The Company believes its cash balances and investments, collections
on existing finance receivables, syndicated bank lines and current investment-grade credit ratings of A+/A1 will continue   
         31   

Table of Contents  

to provide it with sufficient resources and access to capital markets at competitive interest rates and therefore contribute to the Company maintaining its liquidity and financial stability. A
decrease in these credit ratings could negatively impact the Company s ability to access capital markets at competitive interest rates and the Company s ability to maintain liquidity and financial stability. PACCAR believes its Financial
Services companies will be able to continue funding receivables, servicing debt and paying dividends through internally generated funds, access to public and private debt markets and lines of credit.   
    Commitments        The following
summarizes the Company s contractual cash commitments at December 31, 2015:       
    Loan and lease commitments are for funding new retail loan and lease contracts. Residual value guarantees represent the
Company s commitment to acquire trucks at a guaranteed value if the customer decides to return the truck at a specified date in the future .         IMPACT OF ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS:       The Company, its competitors and industry in general are
subject to various domestic and foreign requirements relating to the environment. The Company believes its policies, practices and procedures are designed to prevent unreasonable risk of environmental damage and that its handling, use and disposal
of hazardous or toxic substances have been in accordance with environmental laws and regulations in effect at the time such use and disposal occurred.      The Company is involved in various stages of investigations and cleanup actions in different countries related to environmental matters. In certain of these matters, the Company has been designated as a
 potentially responsible party  by domestic and foreign environmental agencies. The Company has accrued the estimated costs to investigate and complete cleanup actions where it is probable that the Company will incur such costs in the
future. Expenditures related to environmental activities in the years ended   
         32   

Table of Contents  

December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $2.0 million, $1.2 million and $2.3 million, respectively. Management expects that these matters will not have a significant effect on the
Company s consolidated cash flow, liquidity or financial condition.       C RITICAL  A CCOUNTING 
P OLICIES :       The Company s significant accounting policies are disclosed in Note A of the consolidated financial
statements. In the preparation of the Company s financial statements, in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, management uses estimates and makes judgments and assumptions that affect asset and liability values and the
amounts reported as income and expense during the periods presented. The following are accounting policies which, in the opinion of management, are particularly sensitive and which, if actual results are different from estimates used by management,
may have a material impact on the financial statements.        Operating Leases     
  Trucks sold pursuant to agreements accounted for as operating leases are disclosed in Note E of the consolidated financial statements. In determining its
estimate of the residual value of such vehicles, the Company considers the length of the lease term, the truck model, the expected usage of the truck and anticipated market demand. Operating lease terms generally range from three to five years. The
resulting residual values on operating leases generally range between 30% and 50% of original equipment cost. If the sales price of the trucks at the end of the term of the agreement differs from the Company s estimated residual value, a gain
or loss will result.      Future market conditions, changes in government regulations and other factors outside the Company s control could
impact the ultimate sales price of trucks returned under these contracts. Residual values are reviewed regularly and adjusted if market conditions warrant. A decrease in the estimated equipment residual values would increase annual depreciation
expense over the remaining lease term.      During 2015, 2014 and 2013, market values on equipment returning upon operating lease maturity were
generally higher than the residual values on the equipment, resulting in a decrease in depreciation expense of $5.8 million, $10.6 million and $4.4 million, respectively.      At December 31, 2015, the aggregate residual value of equipment on operating leases in the Financial Services segment and residual value guarantee on trucks accounted for as operating leases in
the Truck segment was $2.10 billion. A 10% decrease in used truck values worldwide, expected to persist over the remaining maturities of the Company s operating leases, would reduce residual value estimates and result in the Company recording
an average of approximately $52.6 million of additional depreciation per year.        Allowance for Credit Losses     
  The allowance for credit losses related to the Company s loans and finance leases is disclosed in Note D of the consolidated financial
statements. The Company has developed a systematic methodology for determining the allowance for credit losses for its two portfolio segments, retail and wholesale. The retail segment consists of retail loans and direct and sales-type finance
leases, net of unearned interest. The wholesale segment consists of truck inventory financing loans to dealers that are collateralized by trucks and other collateral. The wholesale segment generally has less risk than the retail segment. Wholesale
receivables generally are shorter in duration than retail receivables, and the Company requires periodic reporting of the wholesale dealer s financial condition, conducts periodic audits of the trucks being financed and in many cases, obtains
guarantees or other security such as dealership assets. In determining the allowance for credit losses, retail loans and finance leases are evaluated together since they relate to a similar customer base, their contractual terms require regular
payment of principal and interest, generally over 36 to 60 months, and they are secured by the same type of collateral. The allowance for credit losses consists of both specific and general reserves.   
  The Company individually evaluates certain finance receivables for impairment. Finance receivables that are evaluated individually for impairment consist
of all wholesale accounts and certain large retail accounts with past due balances or otherwise determined to be at a higher risk of loss. A finance receivable is impaired if it is considered probable the Company will be unable to collect all
contractual interest and principal payments as scheduled. In addition, all retail loans and leases which have been classified as TDRs and all customer accounts over 90 days past due are considered impaired. Generally, impaired accounts are on
non-accrual status. Impaired accounts classified as TDRs which have been performing for 90 consecutive days are placed on accrual status if it is deemed probable that the Company will collect all principal and interest payments.   
         33   

Table of Contents  

   Impaired receivables are generally considered collateral dependent. Large balance retail and all wholesale
impaired receivables are individually evaluated to determine the appropriate reserve for losses. The determination of reserves for large balance impaired receivables considers the fair value of the associated collateral. When the underlying
collateral fair value exceeds the Company s recorded investment, no reserve is recorded. Small balance impaired receivables with similar risk characteristics are evaluated as a separate pool to determine the appropriate reserve for losses using
the historical loss information discussed below.      The Company evaluates finance receivables that are not individually impaired on a collective
basis and determines the general allowance for credit losses for both retail and wholesale receivables based on historical loss information, using past due account data and current market conditions. Information used includes assumptions regarding
the likelihood of collecting current and past due accounts, repossession rates, the recovery rate on the underlying collateral based on used truck values and other pledged collateral or recourse. The Company has developed a range of loss estimates
for each of its country portfolios based on historical experience, taking into account loss frequency and severity in both strong and weak truck market conditions. A projection is made of the range of estimated credit losses inherent in the
portfolio from which an amount is determined as probable based on current market conditions and other factors impacting the creditworthiness of the Company s borrowers and their ability to repay. After determining the appropriate level of the
allowance for credit losses, a provision for losses on finance receivables is charged to income as necessary to reflect management s estimate of incurred credit losses, net of recoveries, inherent in the portfolio.   
  The adequacy of the allowance is evaluated quarterly based on the most recent past due account information and current market conditions. As accounts
become past due, the likelihood that they will not be fully collected increases. The Company s experience indicates the probability of not fully collecting past due accounts ranges between 20% and 70%. Over the past three years, the
Company s year-end 30+ days past due accounts were .5% of loan and lease receivables. Historically, a 100 basis point increase in the 30+ days past due percentage has resulted in an increase in credit losses of 5 to 30 basis points of
receivables. At December 31, 2015, 30+ days past dues were .5%. If past dues were 100 basis points higher or 1.5% as of December 31, 2015, the Company s estimate of credit losses would likely have increased by a range of $5
to $25 million depending on the extent of the past dues, the estimated value of the collateral as compared to amounts owed and general economic factors.        Product Warranty        Product warranty is disclosed in Note H of the consolidated
financial statements. The expenses related to product warranty are estimated and recorded at the time products are sold based on historical and current data and reasonable expectations for the future regarding the frequency and cost of warranty
claims, net of recoveries. Management takes actions to minimize warranty costs through quality-improvement programs; however, actual claim costs incurred could materially differ from the estimated amounts and require adjustments to the reserve.
Historically those adjustments have not been material. Over the past three years, warranty expense as a percentage of Truck, Parts and Other net sales and revenues has ranged between 1.4% and 1.8%. If the 2015 warranty expense had been .2% higher as
a percentage of net sales and revenues in 2015, warranty expense would have increased by approximately $36 million.        Pension
Benefits        Employee benefits are disclosed in Note L of the consolidated financial statements. The Company s accounting for
employee pension benefit costs and obligations is based on management assumptions about the future used by actuaries to estimate net costs and liabilities. These assumptions include discount rates, long-term rates of return on plan assets, inflation
rates, retirement rates, mortality rates and other factors. Management bases these assumptions on historical results, the current environment and reasonable estimates of future events.      The discount rate for pension benefits is based on market interest rates of  high-quality  corporate bonds with a maturity profile that matches the timing of the
projected benefit payments of the plans. Changes in the discount rate affect the valuation of the plan benefits obligation and funded status of the plans. The long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on projected returns for each asset class
and relative weighting of those asset classes in the plans.      Because differences between actual results and the assumptions for returns on
plan assets, retirement rates and mortality rates are accumulated and amortized into expense over future periods, management does not believe these differences or a typical percentage change in these assumptions worldwide would have a material
effect on its financial results in the next year. The most significant assumption which could negatively affect pension expense is a decrease in the discount rate. If the discount rate were to decrease .5%,
  
         34   

Table of Contents  

2015 net pension expense would increase to $107.6 million from $85.0 million and the projected benefit obligation would increase $207.2 million to $2.5 billion from $2.3 billion.   
    Income Taxes        Income taxes are
disclosed in Note M of the consolidated financial statements. The Company calculates income tax expense on pre-tax income based on current tax law. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recorded for future tax consequences on temporary
differences between recorded amounts in the financial statements and their respective tax basis. The determination of income tax expense requires management estimates and involves judgment regarding indefinitely reinvested foreign earnings,
jurisdictional mix of earnings and future outcomes regarding tax law issues included in tax returns. The Company updates its assumptions on all of these factors each quarter as well as new information on tax laws and differences between estimated
taxes and actual returns when filed. If the Company s assessment of these matters changes, the effect is accounted for in earnings in the period the change is made.       F ORWARD - LOOKING   STATEMENTS :       This report
contains  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include statements relating to future results of operations or financial position and any other
statement that does not relate to any historical or current fact. Such statements are based on currently available operating, financial and other information and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may affect actual results. Risks and
uncertainties include, but are not limited to: a significant decline in industry sales; competitive pressures; reduced market share; reduced availability of or higher prices for fuel; increased safety, emissions, or other regulations resulting in
higher costs and/or sales restrictions; currency or commodity price fluctuations; lower used truck prices; insufficient or under-utilization of manufacturing capacity; supplier interruptions; insufficient liquidity in the capital markets;
fluctuations in interest rates; changes in the levels of the Financial Services segment new business volume due to unit fluctuations in new PACCAR truck sales or reduced market shares; changes affecting the profitability of truck owners and
operators; price changes impacting truck sales prices and residual values; insufficient supplier capacity or access to raw materials; labor disruptions; shortages of commercial truck drivers; increased warranty costs or litigation; or legislative
and governmental regulations. A more detailed description of these and other risks is included under the heading Part 1, Item 1A,  Risk Factors  in the Company s Annual Report on
 Form 10-K  for the year ended December 31, 2015.   
         35   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A.   
   QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK.         Currencies are presented in millions for the market risks and derivative instruments sections below.       Interest-Rate Risks -   S  ee Note O for a description of the Company s hedging programs and exposure to interest rate fluctuations.  The Company measures its interest-rate risk
by estimating the amount by which the fair value of interest-rate sensitive assets and liabilities, including derivative financial instruments, would change assuming an immediate 100 basis point increase across the yield curve as shown in the
following table:       
     Currency Risks -  The Company enters into foreign currency exchange contracts to hedge its exposure to exchange
rate fluctuations of foreign currencies, particularly the Canadian dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso  (  see Note O for additional information concerning these
hedges  ) . Based on the Company s sensitivity analysis, the potential loss in fair value for such financial instruments from a 10% unfavorable change in quoted foreign currency exchange rates would be a loss of $30.4 related to
contracts outstanding at December 31, 2015, compared to a loss of $36.2 at December 31, 2014. These amounts would be largely offset by changes in the values of the underlying hedged exposures.   
         36   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8.   
   FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA.      
    CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.    
         37   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.    
         38   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.    
         39   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.    
         40   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.    
         41   

Table of Contents  

CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY    

See notes to consolidated financial statements.          
         42   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)        

A.   
   SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES      
     Description of Operations:   PACCAR Inc (the Company or PACCAR) is a multinational company operating in three principal
segments: (1) the Truck segment includes the design and manufacture of high-quality, light-, medium- and heavy-duty commercial trucks; (2) the Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial
vehicles; and (3) the Financial Services segment (PFS) includes finance and leasing products and services provided to customers and dealers. PACCAR s finance and leasing activities are principally related to PACCAR products and associated
equipment. PACCAR s sales and revenues are derived primarily from North America and Europe. The Company also operates in Australia and Brasil and sells trucks and parts to customers in Asia, Africa, Middle East and South America.   
    Principles of Consolidation:   The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its wholly owned domestic and
foreign subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions are eliminated in consolidation.        Use of Estimates:  
The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes.
Actual results could differ from those estimates.        Revenue Recognition:         Truck, Parts and Other:  Substantially all sales and revenues of trucks and related aftermarket parts are recorded by the Company when products are shipped to dealers or customers, except for
certain truck shipments that are subject to a residual value guarantee to the customer. Revenues related to these shipments are generally recognized on a straight-line basis over the guarantee period (see Note E). At the time certain truck and
parts sales to a dealer are recognized, the Company records an estimate of any future sales incentive costs related to such sales. The estimate is based on historical data and announced incentive programs. In the Truck and Parts segments, the
Company grants extended payment terms on selected receivables. Interest is charged for the period beyond standard payment terms. Interest income is recorded as earned.       Financial Services:  Interest income from finance and other receivables is recognized using the interest method. Certain loan origination costs are deferred and amortized to interest income over the
expected life of the contracts, generally 36 to 60 months, using the straight-line method which approximates the interest method. For operating leases, rental revenue is recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease term. Rental revenues
for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $668.6, $681.5 and $631.7, respectively. Depreciation and related leased unit operating expenses were $536.2, $544.0 and $503.5 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013,
respectively.      Recognition of interest income and rental revenue is suspended (put on non-accrual status) when the receivable becomes
more than 90 days past the contractual due date or earlier if some other event causes the Company to determine that collection is not probable. Accordingly, no finance receivables more than 90 days past due were accruing interest at
December 31, 2015 or December 31, 2014. Recognition is resumed if the receivable becomes current by the payment of all amounts due under the terms of the existing contract and collection of remaining amounts is considered probable (if
not contractually modified) or if the customer makes scheduled payments for three months and collection of remaining amounts is considered probable (if contractually modified). Payments received while the finance receivable is on non-accrual status
are applied to interest and principal in accordance with the contractual terms.        Cash and Cash Equivalents:   Cash equivalents
consist of liquid investments with a maturity at date of purchase of 90 days or less.        Marketable Debt
Securities      :     The Company s investments in marketable debt securities are classified as available-for-sale. These investments are stated at fair value with any unrealized gains or losses, net of tax, included
as a component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) (AOCI).      The Company utilizes third-party pricing services for all of its
marketable debt security valuations. The Company reviews the pricing methodology used by the  third-party  pricing services, including the manner employed to collect market information. On a quarterly basis, the
Company also performs review and validation procedures on the pricing information received from the  third-party  providers. These procedures help ensure that the fair value information used by the Company is
determined in accordance with applicable accounting guidance.   
         43   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The Company evaluates its investment in marketable debt securities at the end of each reporting period
to determine if a decline in fair value is other than temporary. Realized losses are recognized upon management s determination that a decline in fair value is other than temporary. The determination of other-than-temporary impairment is a
subjective process, requiring the use of judgments and assumptions regarding the amount and timing of recovery. The Company reviews and evaluates its investments at least quarterly to identify investments that have indications of
other-than-temporary impairments. It is reasonably possible that a change in estimate could occur in the near term relating to other-than-temporary impairment. Accordingly, the Company considers several factors when evaluating debt securities for
other-than-temporary impairment, including whether the decline in fair value of the security is due to increased default risk for the specific issuer or market interest-rate risk.      In assessing default risk, the Company considers the collectability of principal and interest payments by monitoring changes to issuers  credit ratings, specific credit events associated with
individual issuers as well as the credit ratings of any financial guarantor, and the extent and duration to which amortized cost exceeds fair value.      In assessing market interest-rate risk, including benchmark interest rates and credit spreads, the Company considers its intent for selling the securities and whether it is more likely than not the
Company will be able to hold these securities until the recovery of any unrealized losses.          Receivables:   
       Trade and Other Receivables  :  The Company s trade and other receivables are recorded at cost, net of allowances. At
December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, trade and other receivables include trade receivables from dealers and customers of $739.2 and $882.2 and other receivables of $139.8 and $165.0 relating primarily to value added tax receivables and
supplier allowances and rebates.       Finance and Other Receivables  :        Loans    Loans represent fixed or floating-rate loans to customers collateralized by the vehicles purchased and are recorded at amortized cost.   
   Finance leases    Finance leases are retail direct financing leases and sales-type finance leases, which lease equipment to retail customers
and dealers. These leases are reported as the sum of minimum lease payments receivable and estimated residual value of the property subject to the contracts, reduced by unearned interest which is shown separately.   
   Dealer wholesale financing    Dealer wholesale financing is floating-rate wholesale loans to PACCAR dealers for new and used trucks and are
recorded at amortized cost. The loans are collateralized by the trucks being financed.       Operating lease receivables and other   
Operating lease receivables and other include monthly rentals due on operating leases, unamortized loan and lease origination costs, interest on loans and other amounts due within one year in the normal course of business.   
    Allowance for Credit Losses:     
   Truck, Parts and Other:  The Company historically has not experienced significant losses or past due amounts on trade and other receivables in its
Truck, Parts and Other businesses. Accounts are considered past due once the unpaid balance is over 30 days outstanding based on contractual payment terms. Accounts are charged-off against the allowance for credit losses when, in the judgment of
management, they are considered uncollectible. The allowance for credit losses for Truck, Parts and Other was $1.3 and $1.9 for the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. Net charge-offs were $.3, $.2 and $.2 for the years ended
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.       Financial Services:  The Company continuously monitors the payment performance of
its finance receivables. For large retail finance customers and dealers with wholesale financing, the Company regularly reviews their financial statements and makes site visits and phone contact as appropriate. If the Company becomes aware of
circumstances that could cause those customers or dealers to face financial difficulty, whether or not they are past due, the customers are placed on a watch list.   
         44   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The Company modifies loans and finance leases in the normal course of its Financial Services operations.
The Company may modify loans and finance leases for commercial reasons or for credit reasons. Modifications for commercial reasons are changes to contract terms for customers that are not considered to be in financial difficulty. Insignificant
delays are modifications extending terms up to three months for customers experiencing some short-term financial stress, but not considered to be in financial difficulty. Modifications for credit reasons are changes to contract terms for customers
considered to be in financial difficulty. The Company s modifications typically result in granting more time to pay the contractual amounts owed and charging a fee and interest for the term of the modification.   
  When considering whether to modify customer accounts for credit reasons, the Company evaluates the creditworthiness of the customers and modifies those
accounts that the Company considers likely to perform under the modified terms. When the Company modifies loans and finance leases for credit reasons and grants a concession, the modifications are classified as troubled debt restructurings (TDR).
The Company does not typically grant credit modifications for customers that do not meet minimum underwriting standards since the Company normally repossesses the financed equipment in these circumstances. When such modifications do occur, they are
considered TDRs.      On average, modifications extended contractual terms by approximately seven months in 2015 and five months in 2014 and did
not have a significant effect on the weighted average term or interest rate of the total portfolio at December 31, 2015 and 2014.      The
Company has developed a systematic methodology for determining the allowance for credit losses for its two portfolio segments, retail and wholesale. The retail segment consists of retail loans and direct and sales-type finance leases, net of
unearned interest. The wholesale segment consists of truck inventory financing loans to dealers that are collateralized by trucks and other collateral. The wholesale segment generally has less risk than the retail segment. Wholesale receivables
generally are shorter in duration than retail receivables, and the Company requires periodic reporting of the wholesale dealer s financial condition, conducts periodic audits of the trucks being financed and in many cases, obtains guarantees or
other security such as dealership assets. In determining the allowance for credit losses, retail loans and finance leases are evaluated together since they relate to a similar customer base, their contractual terms require regular payment of
principal and interest, generally over 36 to 60 months, and they are secured by the same type of collateral. The allowance for credit losses consists of both specific and general reserves.      The Company individually evaluates certain finance receivables for impairment. Finance receivables that are evaluated individually for impairment consist of all wholesale accounts and certain large retail
accounts with past due balances or otherwise determined to be at a higher risk of loss. A finance receivable is impaired if it is considered probable the Company will be unable to collect all contractual interest and principal payments as scheduled.
In addition, all retail loans and leases which have been classified as TDRs and all customer accounts over 90 days past due are considered impaired. Generally, impaired accounts are on non-accrual status. Impaired accounts classified as TDRs which
have been performing for 90 consecutive days are placed on accrual status if it is deemed probable that the Company will collect all principal and interest payments.      Impaired receivables are generally considered collateral dependent. Large balance retail and all wholesale impaired receivables are individually evaluated to determine the appropriate reserve for losses.
The determination of reserves for large balance impaired receivables considers the fair value of the associated collateral. When the underlying collateral fair value exceeds the Company s recorded investment, no reserve is recorded. Small
balance impaired receivables with similar risk characteristics are evaluated as a separate pool to determine the appropriate reserve for losses using the historical loss information discussed below.   
  The Company evaluates finance receivables that are not individually impaired on a collective basis and determines the general allowance for credit losses
for both retail and wholesale receivables based on historical loss information, using past due account data and current market conditions. Information used includes assumptions regarding the likelihood of collecting current and past due accounts,
repossession rates, the recovery rate on the underlying collateral based on used truck values and other pledged collateral or recourse. The Company has developed a range of loss estimates for each of its country portfolios based on historical
experience, taking into account loss frequency and severity in both strong and weak truck market conditions. A projection is made of the range of estimated credit losses inherent in the portfolio from which an amount is determined as probable based
on current market conditions and other factors impacting the creditworthiness of the Company s borrowers and their ability to repay. After determining the appropriate level of the allowance for credit losses, a provision for losses on finance
receivables is charged to income as necessary to reflect management s estimate of incurred credit losses, net of recoveries, inherent in the portfolio.   
         45   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   In determining the fair value of the collateral, the Company uses a pricing matrix and categorizes the
fair value as Level 2 in the hierarchy of fair value measurement. The pricing matrix is reviewed quarterly and updated as appropriate. The pricing matrix considers the make, model and year of the equipment as well as recent sales prices of
comparable equipment through wholesale channels to the Company s dealers (principal market). The fair value of the collateral also considers the overall condition of the equipment.      Accounts are charged-off against the allowance for credit losses when, in the judgment of management, they are considered uncollectible, which generally occurs upon repossession of the collateral.
Typically the timing between the repossession and charge-off is not significant. In cases where repossession is delayed (e.g., for legal proceedings), the Company records a partial charge-off. The charge-off is determined by comparing the fair value
of the collateral, less cost to sell, to the recorded investment.        Inventories:   Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or
market. Cost of inventories in the U.S. is determined principally by the  last-in,  first-out (LIFO) method. Cost of all other inventories is determined principally by the first-in, first-out (FIFO) method. Cost
of sales and revenues include shipping and handling costs incurred to deliver products to dealers and customers.        Equipment on Operating
Leases:   The Company s Financial Services segment leases equipment under operating leases to its customers. In addition, in the Truck segment, equipment sold to customers in Europe subject to a residual value guarantee (RVG) by the
Company is generally accounted for as an operating lease. Equipment is recorded at cost and is depreciated on the straight-line basis to the lower of the estimated residual value or guarantee value. Lease and guarantee periods generally range from
three to five years. Estimated useful lives of the equipment range from four to nine years. The Company reviews residual values of equipment on operating leases periodically to determine that recorded amounts are appropriate.   
    Property, Plant and Equipment:   Property, plant and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation is computed principally by the straight-line
method based on the estimated useful lives of the various classes of assets. Certain production tooling is amortized on a unit of production basis.        Long-lived Assets and Goodwill:   The Company evaluates the carrying value of property, plant and equipment when events and circumstances warrant a review. Goodwill is tested for impairment at
least on an annual basis. There were no impairment charges for the three years ended December 31, 2015. Goodwill was $105.6 and $128.6 at December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively. The decrease in value was mostly due to currency
translation.        Product Support Liabilities:   Product support liabilities are estimated future payments related to product
warranties, optional extended warranties and repair and maintenance (R M) contracts. The Company generally offers one year warranties covering most of its vehicles and related aftermarket parts. For vehicles equipped with engines manufactured by
PACCAR, the Company generally offers two year warranties on the engine. Specific terms and conditions vary depending on the product and the country of sale. Optional extended warranty and R M contracts can be purchased for periods which
generally range up to five years. Warranty expenses and reserves are estimated and recorded at the time products or contracts are sold based on historical data regarding the source, frequency and cost of claims, net of any recoveries. The Company
periodically assesses the adequacy of its recorded liabilities and adjusts them as appropriate to reflect actual experience. Revenue from extended warranty and R M contracts is deferred and recognized to income generally on a straight-line basis
over the contract period. Warranty and R M costs on these contracts are recognized as incurred.        Derivative Financial
Instruments:   As part of its risk management strategy, the Company enters into derivative contracts to hedge against interest rates and foreign currency risk. Certain derivative instruments designated as either cash flow hedges or fair value
hedges are subject to hedge accounting. Derivative instruments that are not subject to hedge accounting are held as economic hedges. The Company s policies prohibit the use of derivatives for speculation or trading. At the inception of each
hedge relationship, the Company documents its risk management objectives, procedures and accounting treatment. All of the Company s interest-rate and certain foreign-exchange contracts are transacted under International Swaps and Derivatives
Association (ISDA) master agreements. Each agreement permits the net settlement of amounts owed in the event of default and certain other termination events. For derivative financial instruments, the Company has elected not to offset derivative
positions in the balance sheet with the same counterparty under the same agreements and is not required to post or receive collateral. Exposure limits and minimum credit ratings are used to minimize the risks of counterparty default. The
Company s maximum exposure to potential default of its swap counterparties is limited to the asset position of its swap portfolio. The asset position of the Company s swap portfolio is $132.2 at December 31, 2015.   
         46   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The Company uses regression analysis to assess effectiveness of interest-rate contracts on a quarterly
basis. For foreign-exchange contracts, the Company performs quarterly assessments to ensure that critical terms continue to match. All components of the derivative instrument s gain or loss are included in the assessment of hedge effectiveness.
Gains or losses on the ineffective portion of cash flow hedges are recognized currently in earnings. Hedge accounting is discontinued prospectively when the Company determines that a derivative financial instrument has ceased to be a highly
effective hedge.        Foreign Currency Translation:   For most of the Company s foreign subsidiaries, the local currency is the
functional currency. All assets and liabilities are translated at year-end exchange rates and all income statement amounts are translated at the weighted average rates for the period. Translation adjustments are recorded in AOCI. The Company uses
the U.S. dollar as the functional currency for all but one of its Mexican subsidiaries, which uses the local currency. For the U.S. functional currency entities in Mexico, inventories, cost of sales, property, plant and equipment and
depreciation are remeasured at historical rates and resulting adjustments are included in net income.        Earnings per Share:   Basic
earnings per common share are computed by dividing earnings by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding, plus the effect of any participating securities. Diluted earnings per common share are computed assuming that all potentially
dilutive securities are converted into common shares under the treasury stock method.        New Accounting Pronouncements:   In January
2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2016-1,  Financial Instruments - Overall (Subtopic 825-10): Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities.  The amendment
in this ASU addresses the recognition, measurement, presentation and disclosure of financial instruments. The ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2017 and interim periods within those annual periods. The Company is
currently evaluating the impact on its consolidated financial statements.      In November 2015, FASB issued ASU 2015-17,  Income Taxes (Topic
740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes.  This ASU simplifies the presentation of deferred income taxes by requiring all deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent in a classified balance sheet. The amendment may
be applied either prospectively or retrospectively to all periods presented. This ASU is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, and early adoption is permitted. The Company adopted ASU 2015-17 prospectively as of
December 31, 2015, accordingly, prior period deferred income tax assets and liabilities were not adjusted.      In May 2014, the FASB issued
ASU 2014-09,  Revenue from Contracts with Customers . This ASU amends the existing accounting standards for revenue recognition. Under the new revenue recognition model, a company should recognize revenue to depict the transfer of promised
goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the company expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In July 2015, the FASB deferred the effective date of this ASU by one year to annual
reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period. Early adoption is permitted, but no sooner than the original effective date of annual and interim periods beginning after
December 15, 2016. The amendment may be applied retrospectively to each prior period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect recognized as of the date of initial application. The Company is currently evaluating the transition
alternatives and impact on the Company s consolidated financial statements.   
         47   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The FASB also issued the following standards, none of which are expected to have a material impact on
the Company s consolidated financial statements.       

*  
  The Company expects to adopt on the effective date.         

B.   
   INVESTMENTS IN MARKETABLE DEBT SECURITIES      
   Marketable debt securities consisted of the following at December 31:   
   
    The cost of marketable debt securities is adjusted for amortization of premiums and accretion of discounts to maturity.
Amortization, accretion, interest and dividend income and realized gains and losses are included in investment income. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific identification method. Gross realized gains were $2.6, $1.2 and $2.0, and
gross realized losses were $.8, $.1 and $.7 for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   
         48   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   Marketable debt securities with continuous unrealized losses and their related fair values were as
follows:       
    For the investment securities in gross unrealized loss positions identified above, the Company does not intend to sell
the investment securities. It is more likely than not that the Company will not be required to sell the investment securities before recovery of the unrealized losses, and the Company expects that the contractual principal and interest will be
received on the investment securities. As a result, the Company recognized no other-than-temporary impairments during the periods presented.   
  Contractual maturities at December 31, 2015 were as follows:       
 
         49   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The net activity of sales-type finance leases, dealer direct loans and dealer wholesale financing on new
trucks is shown in the operating section of the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows since those receivables finance the sale of Company inventory.      Annual minimum payments due on finance receivables are as follows:       

*  
  Operating lease and other trade receivables.     
         50   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          

51   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
    Impaired Loans:  Impaired loans are summarized below. The impaired loans with specific reserve
represent the unpaid principal balance. The recorded investment of impaired loans as of December 31, 2015 and 2014 was not significantly different than the unpaid principal balance.   
   
     Credit Quality:  The Company s customers are principally concentrated in the transportation industry in North
America, Europe and Australia. The Company s portfolio assets are diversified over a large number of customers and dealers with no single customer or dealer balances representing over 5% of the total portfolio assets. The Company retains as
collateral a security interest in the related equipment.      At the inception of each contract, the Company considers the credit risk based on a
variety of credit quality factors including prior payment experience, customer financial information, credit-rating agency ratings, loan-to-value ratios and other internal metrics. On an ongoing basis, the Company monitors credit quality based on
past due status and collection experience as there is a meaningful correlation between the past due status of customers and the risk of loss.   
  The Company has three credit quality indicators: performing, watch and at-risk. Performing accounts pay in accordance with the contractual terms and are
not considered high-risk. Watch accounts include accounts 31 to 90 days past due and large accounts that are performing but are considered to be  high-risk.  Watch accounts are not impaired. At-risk accounts are
accounts that are impaired, including TDRs, accounts over 90 days past due and other accounts on non-accrual status. The tables below summarize the Company s finance receivables by credit quality indicator and portfolio class.   
         52   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          

    The tables below summarize the Company s finance receivables by aging category. In determining past due status, the
Company considers the entire contractual account balance past due when any installment is over 30 days past due. Substantially all customer accounts that were greater than 30 days past due prior to credit modification became current upon
modification for aging purposes.       
     Troubled Debt Restructurings:  The balance of TDRs was $52.3 and $36.0 at December 31, 2015 and 2014,
respectively. At modification date, the pre-modification and post-modification recorded investment balances for finance receivables modified during the period by portfolio class are as follows:   
   
    The effect on the allowance for credit losses from such modifications was not significant at December 31, 2015 and
2014.   
         53   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   TDRs modified during the previous twelve months that subsequently defaulted (i.e., became more than 30
days past due) in the year ended by portfolio class are as follows:       
    The deferred lease revenue is amortized on a straight-line basis over the RVG contract period. At
December 31, 2015, the annual amortization of deferred revenues beginning January 1, 2016 is $134.9, $100.5, $64.3, $41.3, $14.7 and $.3 thereafter. Annual maturities of the RVGs beginning January 1, 2016 are $284.0,
$228.0, $97.6, $49.7, $26.1 and $6.0 thereafter.   
         54   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          

F.     PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT    
   Property, plant and equipment include the following:       

55   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   Product support liabilities are included in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as follows:
      
     I.       BORROWINGS AND CREDIT ARRANGEMENTS    
  Financial Services borrowings include the following:       
    Interest paid on borrowings was $101.3, $136.3 and $149.3 in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. For the years ended
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, the Company capitalized interest on borrowings of nil, $1.3 and $10.3, respectively, in Truck, Parts and Other.      The primary sources of borrowings in the capital markets are commercial paper and medium-term notes issued in the public markets, and to a lesser extent, bank loans. The medium-term notes are issued by
PACCAR Financial Corp. (PFC), PACCAR Financial Europe and PACCAR Financial Mexico.      In November 2015, the Company s U.S. finance
subsidiary, PFC, filed a shelf registration under the Securities Act of 1933. The total amount of medium-term notes outstanding for PFC as of December 31, 2015 was $4,400.0. The registration expires in November 2018 and does not limit the
principal amount of debt securities that may be issued during that period.      As of December 31, 2015, the Company s European finance
subsidiary, PACCAR Financial Europe, had  269.0 available for issuance under a  1,500.0 medium-term note program listed on the Professional Securities Market of the London Stock Exchange. This program replaced an expiring program in the
second quarter of 2015 and is renewable annually through the filing of new listing particulars.   
         56   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   In April 2011, PACCAR Financial Mexico (PFM) registered a 10,000.0 peso medium-term note and
commercial paper program with the Comision Nacional Bancaria y de Valores. The registration expires in April 2016 and limits the amount of commercial paper (up to one year) to 5,000.0 pesos. At December 31, 2015, 8,035.0 pesos remained
available for issuance. PFM intends to file a new program in April 2016.      The Company has line of credit arrangements of $3,435.0, of which
$3,256.4 were unused at December 31, 2015. Included in these arrangements are $3,000.0 of syndicated bank facilities, of which $1,000.0 expires in June 2016, $1,000.0 expires in June 2019 and $1,000.0 expires in June 2020. The
Company intends to replace these credit facilities on or before expiration with facilities of similar amounts and duration. These credit facilities are maintained primarily to provide backup liquidity for commercial paper borrowings and maturing
medium-term notes. There were no borrowings under the syndicated bank facilities for the year ended December 31, 2015.       

J.   
   LEASES      
   The Company leases certain facilities and computer equipment under operating leases. Leases expire at various dates through the
year 2023. At January 1, 2016, annual minimum rent payments under non-cancelable operating leases having initial or remaining terms in excess of one year are $23.2, $11.3, $7.6, $2.6, $1.3 and $1.4 thereafter. For the years ended
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, total rental expenses under all leases amounted to $30.5, $34.5 and $34.1, respectively.       

K.   
   COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES      
   The Company is involved in various stages of investigations and cleanup actions in different countries related to environmental
matters. In certain of these matters, the Company has been designated as a  potentially responsible party  by domestic and foreign environmental agencies. The Company has an undiscounted accrual to provide for the estimated costs to
investigate and complete cleanup actions where it is probable that the Company will incur such costs in the future. Expenditures related to environmental activities for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 were $2.0, $1.2 and $2.3,
respectively.      While the timing and amount of the ultimate costs associated with future environmental cleanup cannot be determined, management
expects that these matters will not have a significant effect on the Company s consolidated financial position.      At
December 31, 2015, PACCAR had standby letters of credit of $16.7, which guarantee various insurance and financing activities. At December 31, 2015, PACCAR s financial services companies, in the normal course of business, had
outstanding commitments to fund new loan and lease transactions amounting to $634.7. The commitments generally expire in 90 days. The Company had other commitments, primarily to purchase production inventory, equipment and energy amounting to
$219.9, $61.1 and $4.0 for 2016, 2017 and 2018, respectively, and nil for 2019 and 2020.      In January 2011, the European Commission (EC)
commenced an investigation of all major European commercial vehicle manufacturers, including subsidiaries of the Company, concerning whether such companies participated in agreements or concerted practices to coordinate their commercial policy in
the European Union. On November 20, 2014, the EC issued a Statement of Objections to the manufacturers, including DAF Trucks N.V., its subsidiary DAF Trucks Deutschland GmbH and PACCAR Inc as their parent. The Statement of Objections is a
procedural step in which the EC expressed its preliminary view that the manufacturers had participated in anticompetitive practices in the European Union. The EC indicated that it will seek to impose significant fines on the manufacturers. DAF is
cooperating with the EC and is preparing its response to the Statement of Objections. The EC will review the manufacturers  responses before issuing a decision. Any decision would be subject to appeal. The Company is unable to estimate the
potential fine at this time and accordingly, no accrual for any potential fine has been made as of December 31, 2015.      PACCAR is a
defendant in various legal proceedings and, in addition, there are various other contingent liabilities arising in the normal course of business. After consultation with legal counsel, management does not anticipate that disposition of these
proceedings (except for the EC matter noted above) and contingent liabilities will have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements.   
         57   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          

L.   
   EMPLOYEE BENEFITS      
    Severance Costs:  The Company incurred severance expense in 2015, 2014 and 2013 of $3.3, $1.8 and $3.5, respectively.   
   Defined Benefit Pension Plans:  The Company has several defined benefit pension plans, which cover a majority of its employees. The Company
evaluates its actuarial assumptions on an annual basis and considers changes based upon market conditions and other factors.      The expected
return on plan assets is determined by using a market-related value of assets, which is calculated based on an average of the previous five years of asset gains and losses.      Generally, accumulated unrecognized actuarial gains and losses are amortized using the 10% corridor approach. The corridor is defined as the greater of either 10% of the projected benefit obligation or
the market-related value of plan assets. The amortization amount is the excess beyond the corridor divided by the average remaining estimated service life of participants on a straight-line basis.   
  The Company funds its pensions in accordance with applicable employee benefit and tax laws. The Company contributed $62.9 to its pension plans in 2015
and $81.1 in 2014. The Company expects to contribute in the range of $50.0 to $100.0 to its pension plans in 2016, of which $18.4 is estimated to satisfy minimum funding requirements. Annual benefits expected to be paid beginning
January 1, 2016 are $78.9, $81.3, $86.7, $90.6, $97.3 and for the five years thereafter, a total of $571.5.      Plan assets are
invested in global equity and debt securities through professional investment managers with the objective to achieve targeted risk adjusted returns and maintain liquidity sufficient to fund current benefit payments. Typically, each defined benefit
plan has an investment policy that includes a target for asset mix, including maximum and minimum ranges for allocation percentages by investment category. The actual allocation of assets may vary at times based upon rebalancing policies and other
factors. The Company periodically assesses the target asset mix by evaluating external sources of information regarding the long-term historical return, volatilities and expected future returns for each investment category. In addition, the
long-term rates of return assumptions for pension accounting are reviewed annually to ensure they are appropriate. Target asset mix and forecast long-term returns by asset category are considered in determining the assumed long-term rates of return,
although historical returns realized are given some consideration.      The fair value of mutual funds, common stocks and U.S. treasuries is
determined using the market approach and is based on the quoted prices in active markets. These securities are categorized as Level 1. The fair value of commingled trust funds is determined using the market approach and is based on the unadjusted
net asset value per unit as determined by the sponsor of the fund based on the fair values of underlying investments. These securities are categorized as Level 2. The fair value of debt securities is determined using the market approach and is based
on the quoted market prices of the securities or other observable inputs. These securities are categorized as Level 2.   
         58   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The following information details the allocation of plan assets by investment type. See Note P for
definitions of fair value levels.       
 
         59   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The components of the change in projected benefit obligation and change in plan assets are as follows:

60   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The components of pension expense are as follows:   
   
    The Company contributions shown in the table above approximates the multi-employer pension expense for each of the years
ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.      Metal and Electrical Engineering Industry Pension Fund is a multi-employer
union plan incorporating all DAF employees in the Netherlands and is covered by a collective bargaining agreement which expired on April 30, 2015; a new agreement is currently under negotiation. The Company s contributions were less than
5% of the total contributions to the plan for the last two reporting periods ending December 2015. The plan is required by law (the Netherlands Pension Act) to have a coverage ratio in excess of 104.3%. Because the coverage ratio of the plan was
97.7% at December 31, 2015, a funding improvement plan effective through 2026 is in place. The funding improvement plan includes a reduction in pension benefits and delays in future benefit increases.   
  The Western Metal Industry Pension Plan is located in the U.S. and is covered by a collective bargaining agreement that will expire on
November 1, 2020. In accordance with the U.S. Pension Protection Act of 2006, the plan was certified as critical (red) status and a funding improvement plan was implemented requiring additional contributions through 2022 as long as the
plan remains in critical status. For the last two reporting periods ending December 2015, contributions by the Company were 12% of the total contributions to the plan.      Other plans are principally located in the U.S. For the last two reporting periods, none were under funding improvement plans and Company contributions to these plans are less than 5% of each plan s
total contributions.      There were no significant changes for the multi-employer plans in the periods presented that affected comparability
between periods.       Defined Contribution Plans:  The Company maintains several defined contribution benefit plans whereby it contributes
designated amounts on behalf of participant employees. The largest plan is for U.S. salaried employees where the Company matches a percentage of employee contributions up to an annual limit. The match was 5% of eligible pay in 2015, 2014 and 2013.
Other plans are located in Australia, Brasil, Canada, the Netherlands, Belgium and Germany. Expenses for these plans were $36.1, $36.3 and $34.0 in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.   
         61   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          

M.   
   INCOME TAXES      
   The Company s tax rate is based on income and statutory tax rates in the various jurisdictions in which the Company operates. Tax
law requires certain items to be included in the Company s tax returns at different times than the items reflected in the Company s financial statements. As a result, the Company s annual tax rate reflected in its financial statements
is different than that reported in its tax returns. Some of these differences are permanent, such as expenses that are not deductible in the Company s tax return, and some differences reverse over time, such as depreciation expense. These
temporary differences create deferred tax assets and liabilities. The Company establishes valuation allowances for its deferred tax assets if, based on the available evidence, it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax
assets will not be realized.      The components of the Company s income before income taxes include the following:   
   
    The Company has not provided a deferred tax liability for the temporary differences of approximately $4,100.0 related to
the investments in foreign subsidiaries that are considered to be indefinitely reinvested. The amount of the deferred tax liability would be approximately $300.0 as of December 31, 2015.      Included in domestic taxable income for 2015, 2014 and 2013 are $249.7, $249.0 and $241.7 of foreign earnings, respectively, which are not indefinitely reinvested, for which domestic taxes of $12.2, $18.6
and $19.5, respectively, were provided to account for the difference between the domestic and foreign tax rate on those earnings.   
         62   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   At December 31, 2015, the Company had net operating loss carryforwards of $397.0, of which
$186.3 related to foreign subsidiaries and $210.7 related to states in the U.S. The related deferred tax asset was $62.7, for which a $30.7 valuation allowance has been provided. The carryforward periods range from five years to indefinite, subject
to certain limitations under applicable laws. The future tax benefits of net operating loss carryforwards are evaluated on a regular basis, including a review of historical and projected operating results.   
  The tax effects of temporary differences representing deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows:   

63   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The Company had $19.1, $12.0 and $13.1 of unrecognized tax benefits, of which $9.9, $1.1 and $1.5 would
impact the effective tax rate, if recognized, as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively.      The Company recognized $1.9,
$.8 and $1.1 of income related to interest in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Accrued interest expense and penalties were $2.8, $4.7 and $5.5 as of December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. Interest and penalties are classified as
income taxes in the Consolidated Statements of Income.      The Company believes it is reasonably possible that approximately $7 of unrecognized
tax benefits, resulting primarily from intercompany transactions, will be resolved within the next twelve months from Competent Authority negotiations between tax authorities of two jurisdictions; the Company does not expect the net impact of these
negotiations will be material to its effective tax rate. As of December 31, 2015, the United States Internal Revenue Service has completed examinations of the Company s tax returns for all years through 2010. The Company s tax returns
for other major jurisdictions remain subject to examination for the years ranging from 2005 through 2015.       

N.   
   STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY      
    Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income (Loss):  The components of AOCI and the changes in AOCI, net of tax, included in the
Consolidated Balance Sheets and the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity, consisted of the following:       
 
         64   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   Reclassifications out of AOCI during the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 are as
follows:       
     Other Capital Stock Changes  :  The Company purchased treasury shares of 3.8 million, .7 million and
nil in 2015, 2014 and 2013, respectively. The Company retired treasury shares of 4.5 million in 2015; there were no treasury stock retirements in 2014 or 2013.       

O.   
   DERIVATIVE FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS      
   As part of its risk management strategy, the Company enters into derivative contracts to hedge against interest rate and foreign
currency risk.       Interest-Rate Contracts:  The Company enters into various interest-rate contracts, including interest-rate swaps and
cross currency interest-rate swaps. Interest-rate swaps involve the exchange of fixed for floating rate or floating for fixed rate interest payments based on the contractual notional amounts in a single currency. Cross currency interest-rate swaps
involve the exchange of notional amounts and interest payments in different currencies. The Company is exposed to interest-rate and exchange-rate risk caused by market volatility as a result of its borrowing activities. The objective of these
contracts is to mitigate the fluctuations on earnings, cash flows and fair value of borrowings. Net amounts paid or received are reflected as adjustments to interest expense.   
         65   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   At December 31, 2015, the notional amount of the Company s interest-rate contracts was
$3,303.5. Notional maturities for  all interest-rate  contracts are $1,276.4 for 2016, $728.0 for 2017, $1,040.5 for 2018, $95.0 for 2019, $141.3 for 2020 and $22.3 thereafter. Substantially all of
these contracts are floating to fixed swaps that effectively convert an equivalent amount of commercial paper and other variable rate debt to fixed rates.       Foreign-Exchange Contracts:  The Company enters into foreign-exchange contracts to hedge certain anticipated transactions and assets and liabilities denominated in foreign currencies, particularly
the Canadian dollar, the euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar, the Brazilian real and the Mexican peso. The objective is to reduce fluctuations in earnings and cash flows associated with changes in foreign currency exchange rates. At
December 31, 2015, the notional amount of the outstanding foreign-exchange contracts was $286.1. Foreign-exchange contracts mature within one year.      The following table presents the balance sheet classification, fair value, gross and pro-forma net amounts of derivative financial instruments:   

66   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
    Fair Value Hedges:  Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as fair value hedges are
recorded in earnings together with the changes in fair value of the hedged item attributable to the risk being hedged. The (income) or expense recognized in earnings related to fair value hedges was included in interest and other borrowing expenses
in the Financial Services segment of the Consolidated Statements of Income as follows:       

Year Ended December 31,      

2015   

2014  

2013  

Interest-rate swaps   

$   
   (.9   
   )    
     
  $  
  .1  

$  
  .7  

Term notes   

.2   

(2.6  
  )   

(5.1  
  )    

Cash Flow Hedges:  Substantially all of the Company s interest-rate contracts and some foreign-exchange
contracts have been designated as cash flow hedges. Changes in the fair value of derivatives designated as cash flow hedges are recorded in AOCI to the extent such hedges are considered effective. Amounts in AOCI are reclassified into net income in
the same period in which the hedged transaction affects earnings. The maximum length of time over which the Company is hedging its exposure to the variability in future cash flows is 5.4 years. For the periods ended December 31, 2015, 2014
and 2013, the Company recognized gains on the ineffective portion of nil, nil and $.1, respectively.         The following table presents the pre-tax effects of derivative instruments recognized in other comprehensive (loss) income (OCI):         

Year Ended December 31,      
     
   2015   

2014  

2013  

INTEREST- RATE CONTRACTS   

FOREIGN- EXCHANGE CONTRACTS   

INTEREST- RATE CONTRACTS  

FOREIGN- EXCHANGE CONTRACTS  

INTEREST- RATE CONTRACTS  

FOREIGN- EXCHANGE CONTRACTS  

Gain (loss) recognized in OCI:   

Truck, Parts and Other   

$   
   4.9   

$  
  1.7  

$  
  (1.2  
  )    
 
    Financial Services   
     
   $   
   33.8   

$  
  24.4  

$  
  54.4  

Total   
     
   $   
   33.8   

$   
   4.9   

$  
  24.4  

$  
  1.7  

$  
  54.4  

$  
  (1.2  
  )    

Expense (income) reclassified out of AOCI into income was as follows:  

Year Ended December 31,      
     
   2015   

2014  

2013  

INTEREST- RATE CONTRACTS   

FOREIGN- EXCHANGE CONTRACTS   

INTEREST- RATE CONTRACTS  

FOREIGN- EXCHANGE CONTRACTS  

INTEREST- RATE CONTRACTS  

FOREIGN- EXCHANGE CONTRACTS  

Truck, Parts and Other:   

Net sales and revenues   

$   
   (.1   
   )    

Cost of sales and revenues   

3.4   

$  
  .3  

$  
  1.0  

Interest and other expense, net   

(4.1   
   )    

(2.1  
  )   

(.6  
  )    
 
    Financial Services:   

Interest and other borrowing expenses   
     
   $   
   (28.5   
   )    

$  
  (21.7  
  )   

$  
  (36.0  
  )   

Total   
     
   $   
   (28.5   
   )    
     
   $   
   (.8   
   )    
     
  $  
  (21.7  
  )   
     
  $  
  (1.8  
  )   
     
  $  
  (36.0  
  )   
     
  $  
  .4  

The amount of loss recorded in AOCI at December 31, 2015 that is estimated to be reclassified into earnings in the
following 12 months if interest rates and exchange rates remain unchanged is approximately $6.0, net of taxes. The fixed interest earned on finance receivables will offset the amount recognized in interest expense, resulting in a stable
interest margin consistent with the Company s risk management strategy.      The amount of gains or losses reclassified out of AOCI into net
income based on the probability that the original forecasted transactions would not occur was nil for the years ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013.       Economic Hedges:  For other risk management purposes, the Company enters into derivative instruments that do not qualify for hedge accounting. These derivative instruments are used to mitigate the
risk of market volatility arising from borrowings and foreign currency denominated transactions. Changes in the fair value of economic hedges are recorded in earnings in the period in which the change occurs.   
         67   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
   The (income) expense recognized in earnings related to economic hedges was as follows:   

P.   
   FAIR VALUE MEASUREMENTS      
   Fair value represents the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction
between market participants at the measurement date. Inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value are either observable or unobservable. These inputs have been categorized into the fair value hierarchy described below.   
  Level 1   Valuations are based on quoted prices that the Company has the ability to obtain in actively traded markets for
identical assets or liabilities. Since valuations are based on quoted prices that are readily and regularly available in an active market or exchange traded market, valuation of these instruments does not require a significant degree of judgment.
     Level 2   Valuations are based on quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for
identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-based valuation techniques for which all significant assumptions are observable in the market.      Level 3   Valuations are based on model-based techniques for which some or all of the assumptions are obtained from indirect market information that is significant to the overall fair value
measurement and which require a significant degree of management judgment.      There were no transfers of assets or liabilities between
Level 1 and Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy during the year ended December 31, 2015. The Company s policy is to recognize transfers between levels at the end of the reporting period.   
  The Company uses the following methods and assumptions to measure fair value for assets and liabilities subject to recurring fair value measurements.
      Marketable Securities:  The Company s marketable debt securities consist of municipal bonds, government obligations,
investment-grade corporate obligations, commercial paper, asset-backed securities and term deposits. The fair value of U.S. government obligations is determined using the market approach and is based on quoted prices in active markets and are
categorized as Level 1.      The fair value of U.S. government agency obligations, non-U.S. government bonds, municipal bonds, corporate
bonds, asset-backed securities, commercial paper and term deposits is determined using the market approach and is primarily based on matrix pricing as a practical expedient which does not rely exclusively on quoted prices for a specific security.
Significant inputs used to determine fair value include interest rates, yield curves, credit rating of the security and other observable market information and are categorized as Level 2.   
         68   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          
    Derivative Financial Instruments:  The Company s derivative contracts consist of
interest-rate swaps, cross currency swaps and foreign currency exchange contracts. These derivative contracts are traded over the counter and their fair value is determined using industry standard valuation models, which are based on the income
approach (i.e., discounted cash flows). The significant observable inputs into the valuation models include interest rates, yield curves, currency exchange rates, credit default swap spreads and forward rates and are categorized as Level 2.
      Assets and Liabilities Subject to Recurring Fair Value Measurement       The Company s assets and liabilities subject to recurring fair value measurements are either Level 1 or Level 2 as follows:   

69   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          

At December 31, 2014      

LEVEL 1  

LEVEL 2  

TOTAL  

Assets:   

Marketable debt securities   

U.S. tax-exempt securities   

$  
  363.4  

$  
  363.4  

U.S. corporate securities   

81.5  

81.5  

U.S. government and agency securities   

$  
  7.7  

.3  

8.0  

Non-U.S. corporate securities   

532.0  

532.0  

Non-U.S. government securities   

194.1  

194.1  

Other debt securities   

93.0  

93.0  

Total marketable debt securities   

$  
  7.7  

$  
  1,264.3  

$  
    1,272.0  

Derivatives   

Cross currency swaps   

$  
  81.7  

$  
  81.7  

Interest-rate swaps   

1.0  

1.0  

Foreign-exchange contracts   

6.5  

6.5  

Total derivative assets   

$  
  89.2  

$  
  89.2  

Liabilities:   

Derivatives   

Cross currency swaps   

$  
  31.1  

$  
  31.1  

Interest-rate swaps   

14.6  

14.6  

Foreign-exchange contracts   

2.8  

2.8  

Total derivative liabilities   

$  
  48.5  

$  
  48.5  

Fair Value Disclosure of Other Financial Instruments   
      For financial instruments that are not recognized at fair value, the Company uses the
following methods and assumptions to determine the fair value. These instruments are categorized as Level 2, except cash which is categorized as Level 1 and fixed rate loans which are categorized as Level 3.  
       Cash and Cash Equivalents:  Carrying amounts approximate fair
value.          Financial Services Net Receivables:  For floating-rate
loans, wholesale financing, and operating lease and other trade receivables, carrying values approximate fair values. For fixed rate loans, fair values are estimated using the income approach by discounting cash flows to their present value based on
current rates for comparable loans. Finance lease receivables and related allowance for credit losses have been excluded from the accompanying table.      
   Debt:  The carrying amounts of financial services commercial paper, variable rate bank loans and variable rate term notes approximate fair value.
For fixed rate debt, fair values are estimated using the income approach by discounting cash flows to their present value based on current rates for comparable debt.      
  The Company s estimate of fair value for fixed rate loans and debt that are not carried at fair value was as follows:  

At December 31,    
      
   2015   

2014  

CARRYING AMOUNT   

FAIR VALUE   

CARRYING AMOUNT  

FAIR VALUE  

Assets:    

Financial Services fixed rate loans   
      
   $   
   3,660.6   

$   
     3,729.0   

$  
    3,627.5  

$  
  3,683.3  

Liabilities:    

Financial Services fixed rate debt   

4,167.9   

4,192.2   

3,713.4  

3,737.7  

70   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions, except per share data)          

Q.   
   STOCK COMPENSATION PLANS      
   PACCAR has certain plans under which officers and key employees may be granted options to purchase shares of the Company s
authorized but unissued common stock under plans approved by stockholders.  Non-employee  directors and certain officers may be granted restricted shares of the Company s common stock under plans approved
by stockholders. Options outstanding under these plans were granted with exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the Company s common stock at the date of grant. Options expire no later than ten years from the grant date and
generally vest after three years. Restricted stock awards generally vest over three years or earlier upon meeting certain age and service requirements.      The Company recognizes compensation cost on these options and restricted stock awards on a straight-line basis over the requisite period the employee is required to render service. The maximum number of
shares of the Company s common stock authorized for issuance under these plans is 46.7 million shares, and as of December 31, 2015, the maximum number of shares available for future grants was 15.5 million.   
  The estimated fair value of each option award is determined on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes-Merton option pricing model that uses
assumptions noted in the following table. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant. Expected volatility is based on historical volatility. The dividend yield is based on an estimated future
dividend yield using projected net income for the next five years, implied dividends and Company stock price. The expected term is based on the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding based on historical experience.

*  Weighted Average    
         71   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions, except per share data)          
   The fair value of restricted shares is determined based upon the stock price on the date of grant. The
summary of nonvested restricted shares as of December 31, 2015 and changes during the year then ended is presented below:       

R.   
   SEGMENT AND RELATED INFORMATION      
   PACCAR operates in three principal segments: Truck, Parts and Financial Services. The Company evaluates the performance of its Truck
and Parts segments based on operating profits, which excludes investment income, other income and expense and income taxes. The Financial Services segment s performance is evaluated based on income before income taxes. Geographic revenues from
external customers are presented based on the country of the customer. The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those applied in the consolidated financial statements as described in Note A.   
   Truck and Parts:  The Truck segment includes the design and manufacture of high-quality, light-, medium- and heavy-duty commercial trucks and the
Parts segment includes the distribution of aftermarket parts for trucks and related commercial vehicles, both of which are sold through the same network of independent dealers. These segments derive a large proportion of their revenues and operating
profits from operations in North America and Europe. The Truck segment incurs substantial costs to design, manufacture and sell trucks to its customers. The sale of new trucks provides the Parts segment with the basis for parts sales that may
continue over the life of the truck, but are generally concentrated in the first five years after truck delivery. To reflect the benefit the Parts segment receives from costs incurred by the Truck segment, certain expenses are allocated from the
Truck segment to the Parts segment. The expenses allocated are based on a percentage of the average annual expenses for factory overhead, engineering, research and development and SG A expenses for the preceding five years. The allocation is
based on the ratio of the average parts direct margin dollars (net sales less material and labor costs) to the total truck and parts direct margin dollars for the previous five years. The Company believes such expenses have been allocated on a
reasonable basis. Truck segment assets related to the indirect expense allocation are not allocated to the Parts segment.       Financial
Services:  The Financial Services segment derives its earnings primarily from financing or leasing of PACCAR products and services provided to truck customers and dealers. Revenues are primarily generated from operations in North America and
Europe.       Other:  Included in Other is the Company s industrial winch manufacturing business. Also within this category are other
sales, income and expense not attributable to a reportable segment, including a portion of corporate expenses. Intercompany interest income on cash advances to the financial services companies is included in Other and was $.5, $.9 and $.7 for 2015,
2014 and 2013, respectively.   
         72   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          

73   

Table of Contents  

NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
       December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013 (currencies
in millions)          

74   

Table of Contents  

    MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON INTERNAL CONTROL OVER    
   FINANCIAL REPORTING    
      The management of PACCAR Inc (the Company) is
responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting. Internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the
preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.   
  Internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements because of its inherent limitations. Projections of any
evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies and procedures may deteriorate.   
  Management assessed the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria for
effective internal control over financial reporting described in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this assessment, management
concluded that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015.   
  Ernst   Young LLP, the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm that audited the financial statements included in this
Annual Report, has issued an attestation report on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. The attestation report is included on page 76.      Ronald E. Armstrong          Chief Executive
Officer        REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM ON    
   THE COMPANY S CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS    
      The Board of Directors and Stockholders of
PACCAR Inc      We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of PACCAR Inc as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related
consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015. These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s
management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits.      We conducted our
audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of
material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by
management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion.      In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of PACCAR Inc at December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the
consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles.   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), PACCAR Inc s
internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework)
and our report dated February 16, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.      /s/ Ernst  
Young LLP      Seattle, Washington   
  February 16, 2016   
         75   

Table of Contents  

    REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING    
   FIRM ON THE COMPANY S INTERNAL CONTROL OVER        FINANCIAL REPORTING           The Board of Directors and Stockholders of PACCAR Inc      We have audited PACCAR Inc s internal
control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2015, based on criteria established in Internal Control Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO
criteria). PACCAR Inc s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying
Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit.   
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards
require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control
over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered
necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion.      A company s
internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted
accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions
and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that
receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized
acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements.   
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections
of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.   
  In our opinion, PACCAR Inc maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of
December 31, 2015, based on the COSO criteria .       We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the
Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of PACCAR Inc as of December 31, 2015 and 2014, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity and
cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2015 and our report dated February 16, 2016 expressed an unqualified opinion thereon.   
  /s/ Ernst   Young LLP      Seattle, Washington      February 16, 2016   
         76   

Table of Contents  

    QUARTERLY RESULTS (UNAUDITED)    

77   

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9.   
   CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE.         The registrant has not had any disagreements with its independent auditors on accounting or financial disclosure matters.       

ITEM 9A.   
   CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES.          Disclosure
Controls and Procedures.       The Company s management, with the participation of the Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial
Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of the Company s disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)) as of the end of the period covered by this report. Based on that evaluation, the Principal
Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer concluded that the Company s disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of the end of the period covered by this report.       Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.       Management s
Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 75 and Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on the Company s Internal Control over Financial Reporting on page 76 for the year ended
December 31, 2015, are included in this Form 10-K.      There have been no changes in the Company s internal controls over
financial reporting during the fourth quarter of 2015 that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.   

ITEM 9B.   
   OTHER INFORMATION.         Not applicable.
  
         78   

Table of Contents  

      PART III    

ITEM 10.   
   DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE.         Item 401(a), (d), and (e) of Regulation S-K:      The following information is included in
the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 26, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference:      Identification
of directors, family relationships, and business experience is included under the caption  ITEM 1: ELECTION OF DIRECTORS.    
  Item 401(b) of Regulation S-K:      Executive
Officers of the registrant as of February 16, 2016:       
    Officers are elected annually but may be appointed or removed on interim dates.   
         79   

Table of Contents  

   Item 405 of Regulation S-K:      The information required by this item is included in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 26, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference.   
  Item 406 of Regulation S-K:      The Company
has adopted a Code of Ethics applicable to the registrant s senior financial officers including the Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer. The Company, in accordance with Item 406 of
 Regulation S-K,  has posted this Code of Ethics on its website at  www.paccar.com . The Company intends to disclose on its website any amendments to, or waivers from, its Code of Ethics that are
required to be publicly disclosed pursuant to the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information on the Company s website is not incorporated by reference into this report.   
  Item 407(d)(4) and 407(d)(5) of  Regulation S-K:    
  The following information is included in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 26, 2016 and is incorporated herein by
reference:       

Identification of the audit committee is included under the caption  THE AUDIT COMMITTEE.       

Identification of audit committee financial experts is included under the caption  AUDIT COMMITTEE REPORT.       

ITEM 11.   
   EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION.         The following
information is included in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 26, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference:       

Compensation of Directors is included under the caption  COMPENSATION OF DIRECTORS.       

Compensation of Executive Officers and Related Matters is included under the caption  COMPENSATION OF EXECUTIVE OFFICERS. 

Compensation Committee Report is under the caption  COMPENSATION COMMITTEE REPORT.       

ITEM 12.   
   SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS.      
  Stock ownership information is included under the captions  STOCK OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS  and  STOCK OWNERSHIP OF OFFICERS
AND DIRECTORS  in the proxy statement for the annual stockholders meeting of April 26, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference.      Information regarding equity compensation plans required by  Regulation S-K  Item 201(d) is provided in Item 5 of this
 Form 10-K.        

ITEM 13.   
   CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE.         No transactions with management and others as defined by Item 404 of  Regulation S-K  occurred in 2015.   
  Information concerning director independence is included under the caption  BOARD GOVERNANCE  in the proxy statement for the annual
stockholders meeting of April 26, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference.       

ITEM 14.   
   PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES.      
  Principal accounting fees and services information is included under the caption  INDEPENDENT AUDITORS  in the proxy statement for the annual
stockholders meeting of April 26, 2016 and is incorporated herein by reference.   
         80   

Table of Contents  

      PART IV    

ITEM 15.   
   EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES.      
  (a) (1) Listing of financial statements      The following consolidated financial statements of PACCAR Inc are included in Item 8:      Consolidated Statements of Income        Years Ended
December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013      Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income   
    Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   
  Consolidated Balance Sheets        December 31, 2015 and 2014      Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows
       Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity   
    Years Ended December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013   
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements        December 31, 2015, 2014 and 2013      (2) Listing of financial statement
schedules      All schedules are omitted because the required matter or conditions are not present or because the information
required by the schedules is submitted as part of the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.      (3) Listing of
Exhibits (in order of assigned index numbers):       
 
         81   

Table of Contents  

82   

Table of Contents  

83   

Table of Contents  

Exhibit Number    
      
     Exhibit Description    
      
     Form    
      
     Date of First Filing    
      
     Exhibit Number    
      
     File Number     

(u)     Second Amendment to Memorandum of Understanding dated as of September 26, 2013, by and
among PACCAR Engine Company, the Mississippi Development Authority and the Mississippi Major Economic Impact Authority   
      
  10-Q  
      
  November 7, 2013  
      
  10(u)  
      
  001-14817   

(v)     Second Amended and Restated PACCAR Inc Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, Form of Amended Deferred Restricted Stock Unit Grant Agreement   
      
  10-K  
      
  February 26, 2015  
      
  10(t)  
      
  001-14817   

(w)    Second Amended and Restated PACCAR Inc Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for
Non-Employee Directors, Form of Amended Restricted Stock Grant Agreement   
      
  10-K  
      
  February 26, 2015  
      
  10(u)  
      
  001-14817   

(12)   
      
    Statements Re: Computation of Ratios:    

(a)     Computation of ratio of earnings to fixed charges of the Company pursuant to SEC
reporting requirements for each of the five years ended December 31, 2011   2015*    

(21)   
      
    Subsidiaries of the registrant*    

(23)   
      
    Consent of the independent registered public accounting firm*    

(24)   
      
    Power of attorney   Powers of attorney of certain directors*    

(31)   
      
    Rule 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) Certifications:  
   
  (a)     Certification of Principal Executive Officer*  
   
  (b)     Certification of Principal Financial Officer*   

(32)   
      
    Section 1350 Certifications:    

Certification pursuant to rule 13a-14(b) and section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C.
section 1350)*    

(101.INS)   
      
    XBRL Instance Document*    

(101.SCH)   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document*    

(101.CAL)   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase Document*    

(101.DEF)   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase Document*    

(101.LAB)   
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase Document*    

(101.PRE)  
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase Document*    

*  
  filed herewith         

(b)  
  Exhibits (Exhibits filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission are not included herein. Copies of exhibits will be furnished to stockholders at a cost of 25 
per page upon written request addressed to Corporate Secretary, PACCAR Inc, P.O. Box 1518, Bellevue, Washington 98009).         

(c)  
  Financial Statement Schedules   All schedules are omitted because the required matter or conditions are not present or because the information required by the
schedules is submitted as part of the consolidated financial statements and notes thereto.     
         84   

Table of Contents  

      SIGNATURES    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed
on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.       

PACCAR Inc  

Registrant  

Date:  February 16, 2016           

/s/ Ronald E. Armstrong   

Ronald E. Armstrong  

Chief Executive Officer  

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following
persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated.       

Signature   

Title   

/s/ R. E. Armstrong   

Chief Executive Officer and Director  

R. E. Armstrong  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

/s/ R. J. Christensen   

President and Chief Financial Officer  

R. J. Christensen  

(Principal Financial Officer)  

/s/ M. T. Barkley   

Senior Vice President and Controller  

M. T. Barkley  

(Principal Accounting Officer)  

/s/ M. C. Pigott   

Executive Chairman and Director  

M. C. Pigott  

*/s/ A. J. Carnwath   

Director  

A. J. Carnwath  

*/s/ B. E. Ford   

Director  

B. E. Ford  

*/s/ K. S. Hachigian   

Director  

K. S. Hachigian  

*/s/ L. Kaufmann   

Director  

L. Kaufmann  

*/s/ R. C. McGeary   

Director  

R. C. McGeary  

*/s/ J. M. Pigott   

Director  

J. M. Pigott  

*/s/ M. A. Schulz   

Director  

M. A. Schulz  

*/s/ G. M. E. Spierkel   

Director  

G. M. E. Spierkel  

*/s/ C. R. Williamson   

Director  

C. R. Williamson  

*By  
     
    /s/ M. C. Pigott    

M. C. Pigott   

Attorney-in-Fact   
 
         85   

<EX-12.(A)>
 2
 d45361dex12a.htm
 EX-12.(A)

EX-12.(A) 

Exhibit 12(a)   
  PACCAR Inc   
   COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES    
   PURSUANT TO SEC REPORTING REQUIREMENTS    
 (Millions of Dollars)      

</EX-12.(A)>

<EX-21>
 3
 d45361dex21.htm
 EX-21

EX-21 

Exhibit 21   
  SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT (a)       

Name  
      
   State or 
 Country of   Incorporation  
      
   Names Under Which Company 
 Or Subsidiaries Do Business   

PACCAR of Canada Ltd. 
      
 Canada 
      
 PACCAR of Canada Ltd.  

Canadian Kenworth Co.  

Peterbilt of Canada  

PACCAR Parts of Canada  

PACCAR Australia Pty. Ltd. 
      
 Australia 
      
 PACCAR Australia Pty. Ltd.  

Kenworth Trucks  

PACCAR Parts  

DAF Trucks Australia  

PACCAR Financial Pty. Ltd. (b) 
      
 Australia 
      
 PACCAR Financial Pty. Ltd.  

PACCAR Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
      
 Mexico 
      
 PACCAR Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  

Kenworth Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (c) 
      
 Mexico 
      
 Kenworth Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. Kenmex  

PACCAR Capital Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (c) 
      
 Mexico 
      
 PACCAR Capital Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  

PACCAR Parts Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (c) 
      
 Mexico 
      
 PACCAR Parts Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  

PacLease Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. (c) 
      
 Mexico 
      
 PacLease Mexicana, S.A. de C.V. PacLease  

PACCAR Financial Mexico, S.A. de C.V. (d) 
      
 Mexico 
      
 PACCAR Financial Mexico, S.A. de C.V.  

DAF Caminh es Brasil Ind stria Ltda. (e) 
      
 Brasil 
      
 DAF Brasil  

DAF Trucks N.V. (e) 
      
 Netherlands 
      
 DAF Trucks N.V.  

PACCAR Parts Europe  

DAF Trucks Vlaanderen N.V. (f) 
      
 Belgium 
      
 DAF Trucks Vlaanderen N.V.  

DAF Trucks Limited (U.K.) (f) 
      
 United Kingdom 
      
 DAF Trucks Limited (U.K.)  

DAF Trucks Deutschland GmbH (f) 
      
 Germany 
      
 DAF Trucks Deutschland GmbH  

DAF Trucks France, S.A.R.L. (f) 
      
 France 
      
 DAF Trucks France, S.A.R.L.  

DAF Vehiculos Industriales S.A.U. (f) 
      
 Spain 
      
 DAF Vehiculos Industriales S.A.U.  

DAF Veicoli Industriali S.P.A. (f) 
      
 Italy 
      
 DAF Veicoli Industriali S.P.A.  

DAF Trucks Polska SP.Z.O.O. (f) 
      
 Poland 
      
 DAF Trucks Polska SP.Z.O.O.  

PACCAR Trucks U.K. Ltd. (e) 
      
 England and Wales 
      
 PACCAR Trucks U.K. Ltd.  

PACCAR Parts U.K. Limited (g) 
      
 England and Wales 
      
 PACCAR Parts U.K. Limited  

Leyland Trucks Limited (h) 
      
 England and Wales 
      
 Leyland Trucks Limited  

PACCAR Engine Company 
      
 Mississippi 
      
 PACCAR Engine Company  

PACCAR Financial Corp. 
      
 Washington 
      
 PACCAR Financial Corp.  

PACCAR Leasing Company   

SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT (a)   

Name  
      
   State or 
 Country of Incorporation  
      
   Names Under Which Company 
 Or Subsidiaries Do Business   

PACCAR Financial Services Ltd. (i) 
      
 Canada 
      
 PACCAR Financial Services Ltd.  

PACCAR Leasing of Canada a division of PACCAR Financial Services Ltd.  

PACCAR Financial Ltd. (j) 
      
 Canada 
      
 PACCAR Financial Ltd.  

PACCAR Sales North America, Inc. 
      
 Delaware 
      
 PACCAR Sales North America, Inc.  

PACCAR Holding B.V. (k) 
      
 Netherlands 
      
 PACCAR Holding B.V.  

PACCAR Financial Europe B.V. (e) 
      
 Netherlands 
      
 PACCAR Financial Europe B.V.  

PACCAR Financial Holdings Europe B.V. (l) 
      
 Netherlands 
      
 PACCAR Financial Holdings Europe B.V.  

PACCAR Financial Belux BVBA (m) 
      
 Belgium 
      
 PACCAR Financial Belux BVBA  

PACCAR Financial Deutschland GmbH (m) 
      
 Germany 
      
 PACCAR Financial Deutschland GmbH  

PACCAR Leasing GmbH (m) 
      
 Germany 
      
 PACCAR Leasing Europe  

PACCAR Financial Espana S.L.U. (m) 
      
 Spain 
      
 PACCAR Financial Espana S.L.U.  

PACCAR Financial France S.A.S. (m) 
      
 France 
      
 PACCAR Financial France S.A.S.  

PACCAR Financial Italia S.r.l. (m) 
      
 Italy 
      
 PACCAR Financial Italia S.r.l.  

PACCAR Financial PLC (m) 
      
 United Kingdom 
      
 PACCAR Financial PLC  

PACCAR Financial Nederland B.V. (m) 
      
 Netherlands 
      
 PACCAR Financial Nederland B.V.  

PACCAR Financial Services Europe B.V. (m) 
      
 Netherlands 
      
 PACCAR Financial Services Europe B.V.  

(a) 
 The names of some subsidiaries have been omitted. Considered in the aggregate, omitted subsidiaries would not constitute a significant subsidiary    

(b) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Australia Pty. Ltd.    

(c) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Mexico, S.A. de C.V.    

(d) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of Truck Acceptance Corporation, which is a wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Inc    

(e) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Holding B.V.    

(f) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of DAF Trucks N.V.    

(g) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Trucks U.K. Ltd.    

(h) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Parts U.K. Limited    

(i) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR of Canada Ltd.    

(j) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Financial Services Ltd.    

(k) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Sales North America, Inc.    

(l) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Financial Europe B.V.    

(m) 
 A wholly owned subsidiary of PACCAR Financial Holdings Europe B.V.    
      2  

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 d45361dex23.htm
 EX-23

EX-23 

Exhibit 23   
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM   
 We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:  

D. 
 the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-36712) pertaining to the PACCAR Inc Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors,    

E. 
 the Registration Statement (Form S-8 No. 333-120238) pertaining to the PACCAR Inc Restricted Stock and Deferred Compensation Plan for Non-Employee Directors,    

of our reports dated February 16, 2016, with respect to the consolidated financial statements of PACCAR Inc, and the effectiveness of internal control
over financial reporting of PACCAR Inc included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of PACCAR Inc for the year ended December 31, 2015.       

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP 

Seattle, Washington  
 February 16, 2016  

</EX-23>

<EX-24>
 5
 d45361dex24.htm
 EX-24

EX-24 

Exhibit 24   
  POWER OF ATTORNEY     We,
the undersigned directors of PACCAR Inc (the  Company ), a Delaware corporation, hereby severally constitute and appoint M. C. Pigott our true and lawful attorney-in-fact, to sign for us, and in our names in our capacity as director,
a Form 10-K on behalf of the Company for the year ending December 31, 2015, to be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  
 IN WITNESS WHEREOF, each of the undersigned has executed this power of attorney as of this
8 th  day of December, 2015.      

/s/ R. E. Armstrong  

/s/ R. C. McGeary  

R. E. Armstrong 

R. C. McGeary 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

/s/ A. J. Carnwath  

/s/ J. M. Pigott  

A. J. Carnwath 

J. M. Pigott 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

/s/ B. E. Ford  

/s/ M. A. Schulz  

B. E. Ford 

M. A. Schulz 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

/s/ K. S. Hachigian  

/s/ G. M. E. Spierkel  

K. S. Hachigian 

G. M. E. Spierkel 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

/s/ L. Kaufmann  

/s/ C. R. Williamson  

L. Kaufmann 

C. R. Williamson 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

Director, PACCAR Inc 

</EX-24>

<EX-31.(A)>
 6
 d45361dex31a.htm
 EX-31.(A)

EX-31.(A) 

Exhibit 31(a)   
  CERTIFICATION     I, Ronald E. Armstrong,
certify that:      

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PACCAR Inc;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-(e)) and internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        

a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.    
 Date   February 16, 2016           

/s/ Ronald E. Armstrong  

Ronald E. Armstrong 

Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.(A)>

<EX-31.(B)>
 7
 d45361dex31b.htm
 EX-31.(B)

EX-31.(B) 

Exhibit 31(b)   
  CERTIFICATION     I, Robert J. Christensen,
certify that:      

1. 
 I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of PACCAR Inc;        

2. 
 Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such
statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;        

3. 
 Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the
registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;        

4. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-(e)) and internal control
over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:        

a) 
 Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its
consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;        

b) 
 Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of
financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;        

c) 
 Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of
the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and        

d) 
 Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter
in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and    

5. 
 The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of
the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):        

a) 
 All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record,
process, summarize and report financial information; and        

b) 
 Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal controls over financial reporting.    
 Date   February 16, 2016           

/s/ Robert J. Christensen  

Robert J. Christensen 

President and Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.(B)>

<EX-32>
 8
 d45361dex32.htm
 EX-32

EX-32 

Exhibit 32   
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 906   
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 (18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350)   
 In connection with the Annual Report of PACCAR Inc (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2015 as filed with the
Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), the undersigned certify, pursuant to section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 (18 U.S.C. section 1350), that to the best of our knowledge and belief:  

(1) 
 The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and        

(2) 
 The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.    

Date   February 16, 2016          

By 
   
  /s/ Ronald E. Armstrong                        

Ronald E. Armstrong  

Chief Executive Officer  

PACCAR Inc  

(Principal Executive Officer)  

By 
   
  /s/ Robert J. Christensen                         

Robert J. Christensen  

President and Chief Financial Officer  

PACCAR Inc  

(Principal Financial Officer)  
   A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained
by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request.  

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 pcar-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 pcar-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 pcar-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 pcar-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 pcar-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 pcar-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE

</EX-101.PRE>

