<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160218_10-K_edgar_data_1048286_0001628280-16-011346_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15343092</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>407096</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2353038</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5125624</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5226296</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1929755</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>80</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001628280-16-011346.hdr.sgml : 20160218
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160218120818
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001628280-16-011346
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		139
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20151231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160218
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160218

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL INC /MD/
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001048286
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	HOTELS & MOTELS [7011]
		IRS NUMBER:				522055918
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-13881
		FILM NUMBER:		161436695

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10400 FERNWOOD ROAD
		CITY:			BETHESDA
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			20817
		BUSINESS PHONE:		3013803000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		10400 FERNWOOD ROAD
		CITY:			BETHESDA
		STATE:			MD
		ZIP:			20817

	FORMER COMPANY:	
		FORMER CONFORMED NAME:	NEW MARRIOTT MI INC
		DATE OF NAME CHANGE:	19971023

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001628280-16-011346.txt : 20160218

10-K
 1
 mar-q42015x10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents  

   UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
    
     FORM 10-K 

For the Fiscal Year Ended   December 31, 2015    
  or 

For the transition period from              to              
  Commission File No. 1-13881 
    
  MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s Telephone Number, Including Area Code (301) 380-3000 
    
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: NONE 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes           No    o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.    Yes    o      No      
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes           No    o 
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes           No    o 
    
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    o 
    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a small reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.                            Large accelerated filer    x 
       
    Accelerated filer    o 
       
    Non-accelerated filer    o 
       
    Smaller reporting company    o 

(Do not check if a smaller reporting company)   

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes           No      
  The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates at   June 30, 2015  , was   $14,801,193,156    
    
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the Proxy Statement prepared for the   2016   Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into 
  Part III of this report. 

Table of Contents  

   MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
  FORM 10-K TABLE OF CONTENTS 
  FISCAL YEAR ENDED   DECEMBER 31, 2015    

Page No. 
       Part I.  

Item 1.  
     Business  
     2 
       Item 1A.  
     Risk Factors  
     12 
       Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
     20 
       Item 2.  
     Properties  
     20 
       Item 3.  
     Legal Proceedings  
     21 
       Item 4.  
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
     21 

Part II.  

Item 5.  
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
     22 
       Item 6.  
     Selected Financial Data  
     23 
       Item 7.  
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
     24 
       Item 7A.  
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
     46 
       Item 8.  
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
     48 
       Item 9.  
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
     85 
       Item 9A.  
     Controls and Procedures  
     85 
       Item 9B.  
     Other Information  
     85 

Part III.  

Item 10.  
     Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance  
     86 
       Item 11.  
     Executive Compensation  
     86 
       Item 12.  
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
     86 
       Item 13.  
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
     86 
       Item 14.  
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
     86 

Part IV.  

Item 15.  
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
     91 
        
     Signatures  
     95 

1 

       Table of Contents  

   Throughout this report, we refer to Marriott International, Inc.,   together with its consolidated subsidiaries, as  we,   us,  or  the Company  .   
  Beginning in 2013, we changed our financial reporting cycle to a calendar year-end reporting cycle and an end-of-month quarterly reporting cycle.   Historically, our fiscal year was a 52-53 week fiscal year that ended on the Friday nearest to December 31.   Unless otherwise specified, each reference to a particular year means the fiscal year ended on the date and containing the specified number of days that we show in the table under the caption  Fiscal Year  in Footnote No.   1  ,    Basis of Presentation  ,  to the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  In order to make this report easier to read, we also refer throughout to (i) our Consolidated Financial Statements as our  Financial Statements,  (ii) our Consolidated Statements of Income as our  Income Statements,  (iii) our Consolidated Balance Sheets as our  Balance Sheets,  (iv) our properties, brands, or markets in the United States ( U.S. ) and Canada as  North America  or  North American,  and (v) our properties, brands, or markets outside of the United States and Canada as  International.    References throughout to numbered  Footnotes  refer to the numbered Notes to our Financial Statements that we include in the Financial Statements section of this report.  
    PART I 
    
    Item 1.    Business. 
  Corporate Structure and Business 
  We are a worldwide operator, franchisor, and licensor of hotels and timeshare properties under numerous brand names at different price and service points. Consistent with our focus on management, franchising, and licensing, we own very few of our lodging properties. We also operate, market, and develop residential properties and provide services to home/condominium owner associations. 
   We were organized as a corporation in Delaware in 1997 and became a public company in 1998 when we were  spun off  as a separate entity by the company formerly named  Marriott International, Inc.  We operate, franchise, or license   4,424   properties worldwide, with   759,330   rooms as of year-end   2015  . We believe that our portfolio of brands is the broadest of any lodging company in the world. Our principal brands are listed in the following table: 
                        The Ritz-Carlton      
           Gaylord Hotels      
             Bulgari        Hotels   Resorts 
           AC Hotels by Marriott      
             EDITION      
           Courtyard by Marriott        ( Courtyard        ) 
             JW Marriott      
           Residence Inn by Marriott        ( Residence Inn        ) 
             Autograph Collection        Hotels 
           SpringHill Suites by Marriott        ( SpringHill Suites        ) 
             Renaissance        Hotels 
           Fairfield Inn   Suites by Marriott        ( Fairfield Inn   Suites        ) 
             Marriott Hotels      
           TownePlace Suites by Marriott        ( TownePlace Suites        ) 
             Delta Hotels and Resorts      
           Protea Hotels      
             Marriott Executive Apartments      
           Moxy Hotels      
             Marriott Vacation Club      

As of year-end   2015  , we group operations into   three   business segments: North American Full-Service, North American Limited-Service, and International, and provide financial information by segment for   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   in Footnote No.   16  ,    Business Segments    and Footnote No.   12  ,    Property and Equipment  .  
   Pending Combination with Starwood Hotels   Resorts Worldwide, Inc.     
  On November 15, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the  Merger Agreement ) to combine with Starwood Hotels   Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ( Starwood ). The Merger Agreement provides for the Company to combine with Starwood in a series of transactions after which Starwood will be an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the  Starwood Combination ). If these transactions are completed, shareholders of Starwood will receive 0.920 shares of our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, and $2.00 in cash, without interest, for each share of Starwood common stock, par value $0.01 per share, that they own immediately before these transactions. We expect that the combination will close in mid-2016, after customary conditions are satisfied, including shareholder approvals, required antitrust approvals, and the  
     2 

     Table of Contents  

   completion of Starwood s previously announced spin-off of its vacation ownership business, or another spin-off, split-off, analogous disposition, or sale of its vacation ownership business.    
  Company-Operated Properties 
  At year-end   2015  , we operated   1,116   properties (  300,305   rooms) under long-term management agreements with property owners,   41   properties (  9,206   rooms) under long-term lease agreements with property owners (management and lease agreements together,  the Operating Agreements ), and   six   properties (  1,437   rooms) that we own. In addition, we operated under long-term management agreements   41   home and condominium products (  4,203   units) for which we manage the related owners  associations. 
  Terms of our management agreements vary, but we earn a management fee that is typically composed of a base management fee, which is a percentage of the revenues of the hotel, and an incentive management fee, which is based on the profits of the hotel. Our management agreements also typically include reimbursement of costs of operations (both direct and indirect). Such agreements are generally for initial periods of 20 to 30 years, with options for us to renew for up to 50 or more additional years. Our lease agreements also vary, but may include fixed annual rentals plus additional rentals based on a percentage of annual revenues in excess of a fixed amount. Many of our Operating Agreements are subordinated to mortgages or other liens securing indebtedness of the owners. Many of our Operating Agreements also permit the owners to terminate the agreement if we do not meet certain performance metrics and financial returns fail to meet defined levels for a period of time and we have not cured such deficiencies. In certain circumstances, some of our management agreements allow owners to convert company-operated properties to franchised properties under our brands. 
  For lodging facilities that we operate, we generally are responsible for hiring, training, and supervising the managers and employees who are needed to operate the facilities and for purchasing supplies, and owners are required to reimburse us for those costs. We provide centralized reservation services and national advertising, marketing, and promotional services, as well as various accounting and data processing services, and owners are also required to reimburse us for those costs.  
  Franchised, Licensed, and Unconsolidated Joint Venture Properties 
  We have franchising, licensing, and joint venture programs that permit other hotel owners and operators and Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation ( MVW ), our former timeshare subsidiary that we spun off in 2011, to use many of our lodging brand names and systems. Under our franchising program, we generally receive an initial application fee and continuing royalty fees, which typically range from four to six percent of room revenues for all brands, plus two to three percent of food and beverage revenues for certain full-service hotels. We are a partner in unconsolidated joint ventures that manage hotels. Some of these joint ventures also provide services to franchised hotels. We recognize our share of these joint ventures  net income or loss in the  Equity in earnings (losses)  caption of our Income Statements. Franchisees and joint ventures contribute to our national marketing and advertising programs and pay fees for use of our centralized reservation systems. Under license agreements with us, MVW is both the exclusive developer and operator of timeshare, fractional, and related products under the Marriott brand and the exclusive developer of fractional and related products under The Ritz-Carlton brand. We receive license fees under licensing agreements with MVW consisting of a fixed annual fee, adjusted for inflation, of   $50 million   plus   two   percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for initial developer sales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units and   one   percent of the gross sales price paid to MVW for resales of interests in vacation ownership units and residential real estate units, in each case that are identified with or use the Marriott or The Ritz-Carlton marks. 
  At year-end   2015  , we had   3,074   franchised properties (  420,562   rooms),   88   unconsolidated joint venture properties (  10,810   rooms), and   58   licensed timeshare, fractional, and related properties (  12,807   units).  
  Residential 
  We use or license our trademarks for the sale of residential real estate, typically in conjunction with hotel development and receive branding fees for sales of such branded residential real estate by others. Residences are typically constructed and sold by third-party owners with limited amounts, if any, of our capital at risk. We have used or licensed our The Ritz-Carlton, Bulgari Hotels   Resorts, EDITION, Autograph Collection Hotels, JW Marriott, and Marriott Hotels brand names and trademarks for residential real estate sales. While the worldwide residential market is very large, we believe the luxurious nature of our residential properties, the quality and exclusivity associated with our brands, and the hospitality services that we provide, all serve to make our residential properties distinctive. 
     3 

     Table of Contents  

   Seasonality 
  In general, business at company-operated and franchised properties fluctuates only moderately with the seasons and is relatively stable. Business at some resort properties may be seasonal depending on location. 
  Relationship with Major Customer 
  We operate a number of properties under long-term management agreements that are owned or leased by Host Hotels   Resorts, Inc. ( Host ). In addition, Host is a partner in several partnerships that own properties operated by us under long-term management agreements. See Footnote No.   18  ,    Relationship with Major Customer  ,  for more information. 
  Intellectual Property 
  We operate in a highly competitive industry and our brand names, trademarks, service marks, trade names, and logos are very important to the sales and marketing of our properties and services. We believe that our brand names and other intellectual property have come to represent the highest standards of quality, caring, service, and value to our customers and the traveling public. Accordingly, we register and protect our intellectual property where we deem appropriate and otherwise protect against its unauthorized use. 
     4 

     Table of Contents  

   Our Brand Portfolio    
  At year-end   2015  , we operated, franchised, or licensed properties in the following geographical regions: 

5 

     Table of Contents  

(1)   
    Figures include home and condominium products for which we manage the related owners  association. 
               (2)   
    Timeshare properties are licensed by MVW under the Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott brand names. 
     The Ritz-Carlton     is a luxury hospitality brand where the genuine care and comfort of guests is the highest mission. Ritz-Carlton properties provide the finest personal service and facilities for its guests so that they will enjoy a warm, relaxed, yet refined ambience. The Ritz-Carlton experience enlivens the senses, instills well-being, and fulfills even the unexpressed wishes and needs of its guests. Established in 1983 with the purchase of The Ritz-Carlton, Boston and the rights to the name, the brand has grown worldwide with award-winning luxury hotels, residences, golf communities, elegant spas, innovative retail outlets, and acclaimed restaurants. 
  Bulgari Hotels   Resorts  ,   developed in partnership with jeweler and luxury goods designer Bulgari Spa, is a collection of sophisticated, intimate luxury properties located in exclusive destinations. With properties in London, Milan, and Bali and food and beverage outlets in Tokyo, premium individuality is the rule - no detail is too small, no experience too grand. Each intimate location offers guests an exclusive celebration of contemporary design and superior service. 
  EDITION   is a luxury lifestyle hotel brand that combines a personal, individualized, and unique hotel experience with the global reach and scale of Marriott International and creative vision of Ian Schrager. EDITION encompasses not only great design and true innovation, but also great personal, friendly, modern service as well as outstanding, one-of-a-kind food, beverage, and entertainment offerings. Each hotel with its rare individuality, authenticity, originality, and unique ethos reflects the best of the cultural and social milieu of its location and of the time.  
  JW Marriott   is a global luxury brand of beautiful hotels and resorts located in gateway cities and exotic destinations around the world. JW Marriott properties have awe-inspiring spaces influenced by modern residential design, exceptional amenities and culinary experiences, and warm and engaging associates delivering intuitive service. JW Marriott's elegant yet approachable positioning provides a differentiated offering in the luxury hotel market, bridging the gap between full-service hotel brands and the super luxury brands at the top of the tier.  
  Autograph Collection Hotels   are high personality upper-upscale and luxury independent hotels that deliver unique experiences and design across a global portfolio. Each property has been selected for its originality, rich character, uncommon details, remarkable design, or for its best-in-class resort amenities. From iconic to chic and artsy to luxurious, Autograph Collection is designed to attract guests who prefer original, locally authentic, and unique hotel experiences that other conventional brands do not offer. 
     6 

     Table of Contents  

   Renaissance Hotels   is a global, full-service brand in the upper-upscale tier that targets lifestyle-oriented business travelers. Each Renaissance hotel offers its own personality, local flavor, and distinctive style. Innovations include the Navigator program, which helps guests discover the soul of the neighborhood, and Evenings at Renaissance, which helps guests experience the unexpected with live music, mixology demonstrations, art exhibits, and more in the comfort of the hotel lobby bars and lounges. The diverse portfolio of properties includes historic icons, modern boutiques, resorts, and convention hotels.  
  Marriott Hotels   is the Company s global flagship premium brand, primarily serving business and leisure upper-upscale travelers and meeting groups. Marriott Hotels properties deliver premium choices, sophisticated style, and well-crafted details. Properties are located in downtown, urban, and suburban areas, near airports, and at resort locations. Typically, properties offer well-appointed guest rooms, convention and banquet facilities, destination-driven restaurants and lounges, concierge lounges, fitness centers, and swimming pools. Many resort properties have additional recreational facilities, such as tennis courts, golf courses, additional restaurants and lounges, and spa facilities.  
  Delta Hotels and Resorts   is a full-service brand, primarily serving business travelers within the upscale and upper-upscale tiers. Delta Hotels and Resorts are focused on elevating and delivering on the essentials of business travel, through pragmatic and efficient design, thoughtfully appointed guest rooms, large functional work spaces, and complimentary Wi-Fi. Located in gateway cities, suburban areas, near airports, and resort locations, properties also feature flexible meeting spaces, food and beverage options, and premium fitness centers. 
  Marriott Executive Apartments   provides international, five-star serviced apartments in emerging market gateway cities, designed for business executives who require housing outside their home country, usually for a month or longer. These one-, two-, and three-bedroom apartments are designed with upscale finishes, amenities, and services, including on-site gyms and other recreational facilities, a 24-hour front desk, weekly housekeeping services, laundry facilities within the apartment, and often on-site restaurants.  
  Gaylord Hotels   offers guests an entertaining, upscale experience at world-class group and convention-oriented hotels. Gaylord Hotels is a leader in the group and meetings business and complements the Company s network of large convention hotels. Properties are designed to celebrate the heritage of their destinations near Washington, D.C., Nashville, Tennessee, Orlando, Florida, Dallas, Texas, and opening late 2018 in Aurora, Colorado. Gaylord Hotels properties typically have between 1,400 rooms and 2,900 rooms, 400,000 to 600,000 square feet of meeting and convention space, world-class dining and entertainment offerings, and retail outlets in magnificent settings.  
  AC Hotels by Marriott   is designed to attract the next generation design-conscious business traveler in the upper-moderate tier, who seeks a sleek, modern hotel with unique European touches. With hotels across Europe, and now in North America, and coming soon to South America, AC Hotels by Marriott properties are located in destination, downtown, and lifestyle centers. Properties feature the  AC Lounge,  offering cocktails, tapas-inspired appetizers, and shareable plates, where guests can work and collaborate during the day and relax and unwind in the evening.  
  Courtyard   is our hotel product designed for the upscale tier, and is focused primarily on transient business travel. Hotels feature functionally designed guest rooms and meeting rooms, and offer free Wi-Fi, a swimming pool, an exercise room, and The Bistro (a self-serve food store open 24 hours a day). Courtyard Refreshing Business lobby fuses functionality, aesthetics, and technology to offer guests greater control of their environment. High-tech and high-touch meet high-style, providing flexibility to work, relax, eat, drink, and socialize all at one's own pace. 
  Residence Inn   is the leading upscale extended-stay hotel brand designed for frequent and extended stay business and leisure travelers staying five or more nights. Residence Inn provides upscale design and style with spacious suites that feature separate living, sleeping, and working areas, as well as kitchens with full-size appliances. Guests can maintain their own pace and routines through free Wi-Fi, on-site exercise rooms, and comfortable places to work and relax. Additional amenities include free hot breakfast, evening social events three times a week, free grocery shopping services, 24-hour friendly and knowledgeable staffing, and on-site laundry facilities.  
  SpringHill Suites   is the largest all-suites style hotel brand in the upscale tier that delivers industry leading service to guests who are enthusiastic about travel. The brand delivers a fresh and interesting hotel, focused on fusing form and function with modern d cor. The suites feature proprietary West Elm furniture as a new standard. In addition, properties offer enhanced food and beverage choices, with craft beers and wine available in most markets, free hot breakfast, and fitness and wellness zones.  
  Fairfield Inn   Suites   is a well-established leader in the moderate tier and targets no-nonsense travelers seeking a stress-free stay experience. Fairfield is committed to supporting guests  desire to maintain balance and momentum by providing healthy options with our free hot breakfast, 24/7 Corner Market offerings, and on property fitness facilities. The hotels feature a  
     7 

     Table of Contents  

   multi-functional lobby and guest rooms and suite rooms that are uniquely designed for restful sleep and productivity. Fairfield is our second largest distributed brand, located across three continents from urban gateway cities and exciting leisure destinations to secondary and tertiary markets. 
  TownePlace Suites   is our extended-stay hotel brand in the upper-moderate tier, designed to appeal to business and leisure travelers who stay for five nights or more. Each suite provides functional spaces for living and working, including a full kitchen and a home office. Each hotel specializes in delivering service that helps guests make the best of long trips by helping them stay productive and upbeat. Additional amenities include daily housekeeping services, free hot breakfast, exercise facilities, a pool, 24-hour In A Pinch (food and beverage) Market, laundry facilities, and free Wi-Fi.  
  Protea Hotels   is the leading hospitality brand in Africa and boasts the highest brand awareness and largest strategic footprint among all the major hospitality brands in Africa. Competing in the moderate and upper moderate tiers, Protea Hotels is ideal for both business and leisure travelers by offering properties in primary and secondary business centers and desirable leisure destinations. Protea Hotels offers modern facilities, proactive and friendly service, and consistent amenities such as full-service restaurants, meeting spaces, complimentary Wi-Fi, and well-appointed rooms, ensuring global standards for a high quality, relaxed, and successful stay. 
  Moxy Hotels   is a design-led, lifestyle moderate tier brand with a chic, modern, and edgy personality. Moxy Hotels offers a vibrant and stylish public space and a fun, energetic, and lively social scene. The brand opened its first hotel in Italy in 2014 and is expanding to other European countries and the United States. 
  Licensed Brands 
  In 2011 we spun off our timeshare operations and timeshare development business through a special tax-free dividend to our shareholders of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of our then wholly owned subsidiary MVW. Before the spin-off, we developed, operated, marketed, and sold timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential properties as part of our former Timeshare segment under the brand names discussed below, and in conjunction with the spin-off, we entered into licensing agreements with MVW for those brands.  
  Under those licensing agreements, MVW is the exclusive worldwide developer, marketer, seller, and manager of vacation ownership and related products under the Marriott Vacation Club and Grand Residences by Marriott brands. MVW is also the exclusive global developer, marketer, and seller of vacation ownership and related products under The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club brand. The Ritz-Carlton generally provides on-site management for Ritz-Carlton branded properties. We receive license fees under the licensing agreements with MVW for the following brands: 
  Marriott Vacation Club   is MVW s signature offering in the upscale tier of the vacation ownership industry. Marriott Vacation Club resorts typically combine spacious accommodations with one-, two-, and three-bedroom options, living and dining areas, and in-unit kitchens and laundry facilities, with resort amenities.  
  Grand Residences by Marriott   is an upscale tier vacation ownership and whole ownership residence brand. The ownership structure and physical products for these locations are similar to those MVW offers to Marriott Vacation Club owners, although the time period for each Grand Residences by Marriott ownership interest ranges between three and 13 weeks. MVW also offers whole ownership residential products under this brand.  
  The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club   is MVW s vacation ownership offering in the luxury tier of the industry. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club provides luxurious vacation experiences commensurate with The Ritz-Carlton brand. The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club resorts typically feature luxurious two-, three- and four-bedroom units, and luxury resort amenities.  
  MVW offers Marriott Rewards        Points and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards        Points to its owners or potential owners as sales, tour, and financing incentives, in exchange for vacation ownership usage rights, for customer referrals, and to resolve customer service issues. MVW buys these points from our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs. 
  At year-end   2015  , MVW operated   58   properties, primarily in the United States, but also in other countries and territories. Many of MVW s resorts are located adjacent to hotels we operate, such as Marriott Hotels and The Ritz-Carlton, and owners have access to certain hotel facilities during their vacation.  
  Other Activities 
  Credit Card Programs  .     At year-end   2015  , we had six credit card programs in the United States, Canada, and the United Kingdom, which include both Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards credit cards. We earn licensing fees based on card usage, and the cards are designed to encourage loyalty to our brands. 
     8 

     Table of Contents  

   Sales and Marketing, Reservation Systems, and Loyalty Programs  .   We focus on increasing value for the consumer and  selling the way the customer wants to buy.  Our Look No Further        Best Rate Guarantee gives customers access to the same rates whether they book through our telephone reservation system, our website, or any other Marriott reservation channel and ensures best rate integrity, strengthening consumer confidence in our brand. Our strong Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards guest recognition programs and our information-rich and easy-to-use Marriott.com website and mobile app are also integral to our success.  
  Marriott.com and Marriott Mobile are two of our fastest growing booking channels. Now averaging over 60 million visitors each month, and with updated designs, personalized experiences, and a new direct booking campaign - It Pays to Book Direct - Marriott.com is making it easier and more rewarding for our guests to book directly with us. Beyond the booking, Marriott Mobile also now gives our guests unprecedented access to services on-the-go, like mobile check-in and check-out (one of our most widely-used digital features). In 2015, we also launched mobile service requests at all full-service hotels around the globe where guests can use the Marriott Mobile App to engage in a two-way chat with the hotel prior to their arrival and throughout their stay. Marriott Rewards members now enjoy a superior stay experience thanks to these member-exclusive digital services. We continue to explore and test other digital offerings that could make the hotel booking and the hotel stay experience at any one of our hotels more convenient, easy, and personalized. 
  At year-end   2015  , we operated   17   hotel reservation centers,   eight   in the United States and Canada and   nine   in other countries and territories, which handle reservation requests for our lodging brands worldwide, including franchised properties. We own one of the U.S. facilities and either lease the others or share space with an existing Marriott property. While pricing is set by our hotels, our reservation system manages and controls inventory and allows us to utilize third party agents where cost effective. Economies of scale enable us to minimize costs per occupied room, drive profits for our owners and franchisees, and enhance our fee revenue. 
  We believe our global sales and revenue management organization is a key competitive advantage due to our unrelenting focus on optimizing our investment in people, processes, and systems. Our above-property sales deployment strategy aligns our sales efforts around the customer, reducing duplication of sales efforts by individual hotels and allowing us to cover a larger number of accounts. We also utilize innovative sophisticated revenue management systems, many of which are proprietary, which we believe provide a competitive advantage in pricing decisions, increase efficiency in analysis and decision making, and produce higher property-level revenue for the hotels in our system. Most of the hotels in our system utilize web-based programs to effectively manage the rate set up and modification processes which provides for greater pricing flexibility, reduces time spent on rate program creation and maintenance, and increases the speed to market of new products and services.  
  Our customer loyalty programs, Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards, had over 54 million members and 16 participating brands as of year-end   2015  . MVW and other program partners also participate in our rewards programs. The rewards programs yield repeat guest business by rewarding frequent stays with points toward free hotel stays and other rewards, or airline miles with any of 41 participating airline programs. We believe that our rewards programs generate substantial repeat business that might otherwise go to competing hotels. In   2015  , rewards program members purchased over 50 percent of our room nights. We continue to enhance our rewards program offerings and strategically market to this large and growing customer base. Our loyal rewards member base provides a low cost and high impact vehicle for our revenue generation efforts. See the  Rewards Programs  caption in Footnote No.   2  ,    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    for more information. 
  As we further discuss in Part I, Item 1A  Risk Factors  later in this report, we utilize sophisticated technology and systems in our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, in our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs, and in other aspects of our business. We also make certain technologies available to our guests. Keeping pace with developments in technology is important for our operations and our competitive position. Furthermore, the integrity and protection of customer, employee, and company data is critical to us as we use such data for business decisions and to maintain operational efficiency. 
  Environmental Responsibility and Sustainable Hotels  .   Our sustainability strategy supports business growth, conservation of natural resources, and protecting our planet through wide-reaching environmental initiatives. Marriott s environmental goals are to: (1) reduce energy and water consumption by 20 percent by 2020; (2) empower our hotel development partners to build sustainable hotels; (3) green our multi-billion dollar supply chain; (4) educate and inspire associates and guests to conserve and preserve; and (5) address environmental challenges through innovative conservation initiatives including rainforest protection and water conservation. We recently achieved our goal of reducing water consumption by 20 percent by 2020 and are continuing to make progress on our other 2020 goals. 
  We recognize our responsibility to reduce waste as well as water and energy consumption in our hotels and corporate offices. Our focus remains on continually integrating greater environmental sustainability throughout our business. In the year  
     9 

     Table of Contents  

   ahead, we intend to build upon our progress and begin to set the stage for our next generation of sustainability goals. We were the first major hotel chain to calculate our carbon footprint and launch a plan to improve energy efficiency, conserve water, and support globally significant projects that reduce deforestation. We use Energy and Environmental Action (EEAP) plans, our best-practice auditing tool, to help our properties achieve energy and water reduction goals. Working in partnership with the U.S. Green Building Council s (USGBC) Leadership in Energy and Environmental Design (LEED ) certification, Marriott is empowering our hotel development partners to build sustainable hotels. We developed the first LEED Volume Program (LVP) for the hospitality industry to provide a streamlined path to certification through a pre-certified hotel prototype. The LEED Volume Program can save our owners 25 percent in energy and water consumption for the life of their buildings and should recover their initial investment in two to six years. Marriott has one of the largest portfolios of LEED-certified buildings in the hospitality industry (over 50), with dozens more in the development pipeline. 
  Global Design Division  . Our Global Design division provides design, development, construction, refurbishment, and procurement services to owners and franchisees of lodging properties on a voluntary basis outside the scope of and separate from our management or franchise contracts. Similar to third-party contractors, Global Design provides these services on a fee basis to owners and franchisees of our branded properties. 
  Marriott Golf  .   At year-end   2015  , Marriott Golf managed   35   golf course facilities as part of our management of hotels and for other golf course owners. In addition, we provide similar services to three facilities operated by others. 
  Competition 
  We encounter strong competition both as a lodging operator and as a franchisor. There are approximately 873 lodging management companies in the United States, including approximately 11 that operate more than 100 properties. These operators are primarily private management firms, but also include several large national and international chains that own and operate their own hotels and also franchise their brands. Our management contracts are typically long-term in nature, but most allow the hotel owner to replace the management firm if it does not meet certain financial or performance criteria. 
  During the last recession, demand for hotel rooms declined significantly, particularly in 2009, and we took steps to reduce operating costs and improve efficiency. Due to the competitive nature of our industry, we focused these efforts on areas that had limited or no impact on the guest experience. While demand trends globally improved from 2010 through 2015, cost reductions could again become necessary if demand trends reverse. We would expect to implement any such efforts in a manner designed to maintain customer loyalty, owner preference, and associate satisfaction, in order to help maintain or increase our market share. 
  Affiliation with a national or regional brand is common in the U.S. lodging industry, and we believe that our brand recognition assists us in attracting and retaining guests, owners, and franchisees. In   2015  , approximately 70 percent of U.S. hotel rooms were brand-affiliated. Most of the branded properties are franchises, under which the operator pays the franchisor a fee for use of its hotel name and reservation system. In the franchising business, we face a number of competitors that have strong brands and customer appeal, including Hilton, Intercontinental Hotels Group, Hyatt, Starwood, Wyndham, Accor, Choice, Carlson Rezidor, Best Western, La Quinta, and others. 
  Outside the United States, branding is much less prevalent and most markets are served primarily by independent operators, although branding is more common for new hotel development. We believe that chain affiliation will increase in many overseas markets as local economies grow, trade barriers decline, international travel accelerates, and hotel owners seek the economies of centralized reservation systems and marketing programs. 
  Based on lodging industry data, we have more than a 10 percent share of the U.S. hotel market (based on number of rooms) and we estimate less than a two percent share of the lodging market outside the United States. We believe that our hotel brands are attractive to hotel owners seeking a management company or franchise affiliation because our hotels typically generate higher Revenue per Available Room ( RevPAR ) than our direct competitors in most market areas. We attribute this performance premium to our success in achieving and maintaining strong customer preference. We believe that the location and quality of our lodging facilities, our marketing programs, our reservation systems, and our emphasis on guest service and guest and associate satisfaction contribute to customer preference across all of our brands. 
  Properties that we operate, franchise, or license are regularly upgraded to maintain their competitiveness. Most of our management agreements provide for the allocation of funds to be set aside, generally a fixed percentage of revenue, for periodic renovation of buildings and replacement of furnishings. These ongoing refurbishment programs, along with periodic brand initiatives, are generally adequate to preserve or enhance the competitive position and earning power of the properties. Properties converting to one of our brands typically complete renovations as needed in conjunction with the conversion. 
     10 

     Table of Contents  

   Employee Relations 
  At year-end   2015  , we had approximately 127,500 employees, approximately 11,000 of whom were represented by labor unions. We believe relations with our employees are positive. 
  Environmental Compliance 
  The properties we operate or develop are subject to national, state, and local laws and regulations that govern the discharge of materials into the environment or otherwise relate to protecting the environment. Those environmental provisions include requirements that address health and safety; the use, management, and disposal of hazardous substances and wastes; and emission or discharge of wastes or other materials. We believe that our operation and development of properties complies, in all material respects, with environmental laws and regulations. Compliance with such provisions has not materially impacted our capital expenditures, earnings, or competitive position, and we do not anticipate that it will have a material impact in the future. 
  Internet Address and Company SEC Filings 
  Our Internet address is Marriott.com. On the investor relations portion of our website, Marriott.com/investor, we provide a link to our electronic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ), including our annual report on Form 10-K, our quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, our current reports on Form 8-K and any amendments to these reports. We make all such filings available free of charge as soon as reasonably practicable after filing. The information found on our website is not part of this or any other report we file with or furnish to the SEC. 
     11 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 1A.    Risk Factors.  
  Forward-Looking Statements 
  We make forward-looking statements in Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations and elsewhere in this report based on the beliefs and assumptions of our management and on information currently available to us. Forward-looking statements include information about our possible or assumed future results of operations, which follow under the headings  Business and Overview,   Liquidity and Capital Resources,  and other statements throughout this report preceded by, followed by or that include the words  believes,   expects,   anticipates,   intends,   plans,   estimates  or similar expressions. 
  Any number of risks and uncertainties could cause actual results to differ materially from those we express in our forward-looking statements, including the risks and uncertainties we describe below and other factors we describe from time to time in our periodic filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). We therefore caution you not to rely unduly on any forward-looking statement. The forward-looking statements in this report speak only as of the date of this report, and we undertake no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future developments, or otherwise. 
  Risks and Uncertainties 
  We are subject to various risks that could have a negative effect on us or on our financial condition. You should understand that these risks could cause results to differ materially from those we express in forward-looking statements contained in this report or in other Company communications. Because there is no way to determine in advance whether, or to what extent, any present uncertainty will ultimately impact our business, you should give equal weight to each of the following: 
  Our industry is highly competitive, which may impact our ability to compete successfully with other hotel properties and home and apartment sharing services for customers.   We operate in markets that contain many competitors. Each of our hotel brands competes with major hotel chains, as well as home and apartment sharing services, in national and international venues and with independent companies in regional markets. Our ability to remain competitive and to attract and retain business and leisure travelers depends on our success in distinguishing the quality, value, and efficiency of our lodging products and services, including our loyalty programs and consumer-facing technology platforms and services, from those offered by others. If we cannot compete successfully in these areas, our operating margins could contract, our market share could decrease, and our earnings could decline. Further, new lodging supply in individual markets could have a negative impact on the hotel industry and hamper our ability to increase room rates or occupancy in those markets. 
  Economic uncertainty could continue to impact our financial results and growth.   Weak economic conditions in Europe and other parts of the world, the strength or continuation of recovery in countries that have experienced improved economic conditions, changes in oil prices and currency values, potential disruptions in the U.S. economy as a result of governmental action or inaction on the federal deficit, budget, and related issues, political instability in some areas, and the uncertainty over how long any of these conditions will continue, could continue to have a negative impact on the lodging industry. U.S. government travel is also a significant part of our business, and this aspect of our business may continue to suffer due to U.S. federal spending cuts and any further limitations that may result from congressional action or inaction. As a result of such current economic conditions and uncertainty, we continue to experience weakened demand for our hotel rooms in some markets. Recent improvements in demand trends in other markets may not continue, and our future financial results and growth could be further harmed or constrained if the recovery stalls or conditions worsen.  
  Risks Relating to the Starwood Combination 
  We will be subject to various uncertainties and contractual restrictions, including the risk of litigation, while the Starwood Combination is pending that could cause disruption and may make it more difficult to maintain relationships with employees, hotel owners, hotel franchisees, suppliers or customers.   Uncertainty about the effect of the Starwood Combination on employees, hotel owners, hotel franchisees, suppliers and customers may have an adverse effect on our business. Although we intend to take steps designed to reduce any adverse effects, these uncertainties could impair our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel until the Starwood Combination is completed and for a period of time after that, and could cause customers, suppliers and others that deal with us to seek to change our existing business relationships. 
  The pursuit of the Starwood Combination and the preparation for the integration may place a significant burden on our management and internal resources. The diversion of management s attention away from day-to-day business concerns and any difficulties encountered in the transition and integration process could adversely affect our financial results. 
     12 

       Table of Contents  

   In addition, the Merger Agreement restricts each company, without the other s consent, from making certain acquisitions and taking other specified actions until the Starwood Combination closes or the Merger Agreement terminates. These restrictions could prevent us from pursuing otherwise attractive business opportunities and making other changes to our business before completion of the Starwood Combination or termination of the Merger Agreement.  
  A number of lawsuits challenging the Starwood Combination were filed on behalf of purported shareholders of Starwood, naming various combinations of Starwood s directors, Starwood, Marriott, and others, as defendants. Although Marriott was dismissed from these lawsuits, an adverse ruling in any pending or future actions may prevent or delay the Starwood Combination from being completed. Starwood s board of directors has also received demand letters from purported shareholders alleging that Starwood s board of directors breached its fiduciary duties in connection with its approval of the Starwood Combination and demanding that Starwood s board of directors conduct an investigation and take other actions. Similar lawsuits could be filed and similar demand letters could in the future be received by Starwood, Marriott, and their respective boards of directors. One of the conditions to the closing of the Starwood Combination is the absence of any judgment, order, law or other legal restraint by a court or other governmental entity of competent jurisdiction that prevents the consummation of the Starwood Combination. Accordingly, if any of the plaintiffs is successful in obtaining an injunction prohibiting the consummation of the Starwood Combination, then such injunction could prevent the Starwood Combination from becoming effective, or delay its becoming effective within the expected time frame. 
  Failure to complete the Starwood Combination could negatively impact our stock price and our future business and financial results.   If we do not complete the Starwood Combination, our ongoing business could be adversely affected, and we may be subject to several risks, including the following: 
             
    being required to pay a termination fee under certain circumstances as provided in the Merger Agreement; 
                
    having to pay certain costs relating to the Starwood Combination, such as legal, accounting, financial advisor and other fees and expenses; 
                
    our stock price could decline to the extent that the current market prices reflect a market assumption that the Starwood Combination will be completed; and 
                
    having had our management focus on the Starwood Combination instead of on pursuing other opportunities that could have been beneficial to us. 
     If the Starwood Combination is not completed, we cannot assure you that these risks will not materialize and will not materially adversely affect our business, financial results and stock price. 
  Our ability to complete the Starwood Combination is subject to certain closing conditions and the receipt of consents and approvals from government entities which may impose conditions that could adversely affect us or cause the Starwood Combination to be abandoned.   The Merger Agreement contains certain closing conditions, including, among others: 
             
    the approval by the holders of a majority of all outstanding shares of Starwood common stock of the transactions; 
                
    the approval by the holders of a majority of the votes cast at the special meeting of Marriott shareholders in favor of the proposal to issue shares of Marriott common stock to Starwood shareholders; 
                
    the absence of any judgment, order, law or other legal restraint by a court or other governmental entity of competent jurisdiction that prevents the consummation of the Starwood Combination; 
                
    the approval for listing by NASDAQ of the shares of Marriott common stock issuable in the Starwood Combination; and 
                
    the spin-off of Starwood s Vistana vacation ownership business ( Vistana ), or, if the spin-off of Vistana and Vistana s subsequent merger with a wholly owned subsidiary of Interval Leisure Group, Inc. is not consummated, the completion of another spin-off, split-off or analogous distribution of Vistana or the sale of Vistana by Starwood. 
     We cannot assure you that the various closing conditions will be satisfied, or that any required conditions will not materially adversely affect the combined company after the Starwood Combination closes, or will not result in the abandonment or delay of the Starwood Combination. For instance, the consummation of the disposition of Starwood s Vistana business may be delayed or not occur, which could cause the Starwood Combination to be delayed or abandoned. 
  In addition, before the Starwood Combination may be completed, various approvals and declarations of non-objection must be obtained from certain regulatory and governmental authorities, including the expiration or termination of the applicable waiting period under the Hart-Scott Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act and receipt of consents and approvals from the  
     13 

       Table of Contents  

   European Commission and various other governmental entities. These regulatory and governmental entities could impose conditions on the granting of such approvals. Such conditions and the process of obtaining regulatory approvals could have the effect of delaying closing of the Starwood Combination or of imposing additional costs or limitations on the combined company following the closing. The regulatory approvals may not be received at all, may not be received in a timely fashion, or may contain conditions. In addition, Starwood s and Marriott s respective obligations to complete the Starwood Combination are conditioned on the receipt of certain regulatory approvals or waiver by the other party of such condition.  
  Any delay in completing the Starwood Combination could reduce or eliminate the benefits that we expect to achieve.   As discussed above, the Starwood Combination is subject to a number of conditions beyond Starwood s and our control that could prevent, delay or otherwise materially adversely affect the completion of the combination. We cannot predict whether and when these conditions will be satisfied. Any delay in completing the Starwood Combination could cause the combined company not to realize some or all of the synergies that we expect to achieve if the Starwood Combination is successfully completed within the expected time frame. 
  The combined company may not be able to integrate successfully and many of the anticipated benefits of combining Starwood and Marriott may not be realized.   We entered into the Merger Agreement with the expectation that the Starwood Combination will result in various benefits, including, among other things, operating efficiencies. Achieving those anticipated benefits is subject to a number of uncertainties, including whether we can integrate the business of Starwood in an efficient and effective manner. 
  The integration process could also take longer than we anticipate and could result in the loss of valuable employees, the disruption of each company s ongoing businesses, processes and systems or inconsistencies in standards, controls, procedures, practices, policies and compensation arrangements, any of which could adversely affect the combined company s ability to achieve the benefits we anticipate. The combined company s resulting portfolio of approximately 30 brands could be challenging for us to maintain and grow, and the harmonization of our different reservations and other systems and business practices could be more difficult, disruptive, and time consuming than we anticipate. The combined company s results of operations could also be adversely affected by any issues attributable to either company s operations that arise or are based on events or actions that occur before the Starwood Combination closes. The combined company may also have difficulty addressing possible differences in corporate cultures and management philosophies. The integration process is subject to a number of uncertainties, and we cannot assure you that the benefits we anticipate will be realized at all or as quickly as we expect. If we don t achieve those benefits, our costs could increase, our expected net income could decrease, and the combined company s future business, financial condition, operating results and prospects could suffer. 
  We will incur substantial transaction costs in connection with the Starwood Combination.   We expect to incur a number of non-recurring expenses both before and after completing the Starwood Combination, including in obtaining necessary consents and approvals and combining the operations of the two companies. These fees and costs will be substantial. We may also incur unanticipated costs in the integration of the businesses of Starwood and Marriott. Although we expect that the elimination of certain duplicative costs, as well as the realization of other efficiencies related to the integration of the two businesses, will offset the incremental transaction-related costs over time, this net benefit may not be achieved in the near term, or at all. Further, if the Starwood Combination is not completed, we would have to recognize certain of these expenses without realizing the expected benefits of the combination. 
  Our shareholders will be diluted by the Starwood Combination.   The Starwood Combination will dilute the ownership position of our current shareholders. We currently estimate that, upon completion of the combination, our shareholders before the merger will own approximately 61% and former Starwood shareholders will own approximately 39% of the combined company s outstanding common stock. Because of this, our current shareholders may have less influence on the management and policies of the combined company than they now have on us. 
  Our future results will suffer if we do not effectively manage our expanded operations following the completion of the Starwood Combination.   Following the completion of the Starwood Combination, the size of the business of the combined company will increase significantly beyond the current size of our business. Our future success depends, in part, upon our ability to manage this expanded business, which will pose substantial challenges for management, including challenges related to the management and monitoring of new operations and associated increased costs and complexity. We cannot assure you that we will be successful or that we will realize the expected operating efficiencies, cost savings and other benefits from the combination that we currently anticipate. 
  The combined company may not be able to retain Marriott and/or Starwood personnel successfully after the Starwood Combination is completed.   The success of the Starwood Combination will depend in part on the combined company s ability to retain the talents and dedication of key employees that Marriott and Starwood currently employ. It is possible that these employees may decide not to remain with Marriott or Starwood, as applicable, while the Starwood Combination is pending or  
     14 

       Table of Contents  

   with the combined company after the combination is consummated. If key employees terminate their employment, or if the combined company cannot maintain a sufficient number of employees to maintain effective operations, the combined company s business activities could be adversely affected and management s attention could be diverted from successfully integrating Starwood to hiring suitable replacements, all of which may cause the combined company s business to suffer. In addition, we may not be able to locate suitable replacements for any key employees who leave either company, or offer employment to potential replacements on reasonable terms. 
  Risks Relating to Our Business 
  Operational Risks 
  Premature termination of our management or franchise agreements could hurt our financial performance.   Our hotel management and franchise agreements may be subject to premature termination in certain circumstances, such as the bankruptcy of a hotel owner or franchisee, or a failure under some agreements to meet specified financial or performance criteria that are subject to the risks described in this section, which we fail or elect not to cure. In addition, some courts have applied principles of agency law and related fiduciary standards to managers of third-party hotel properties, including us (or have interpreted hotel management agreements as  personal services contracts ). This means, among other things, that property owners may assert the right to terminate management agreements even where the agreements provide otherwise, and some courts have upheld such assertions about our management agreements and may do so in the future. In addition, some management and franchise agreements may be terminated, or property owners may attempt to terminate such agreements, in connection with the Starwood Combination. If terminations occur for these or other reasons, we may need to enforce our right to damages for breach of contract and related claims, which may cause us to incur significant legal fees and expenses. Any damages we ultimately collect could be less than the projected future value of the fees and other amounts we would have otherwise collected under the management agreement. A significant loss of agreements due to premature terminations could hurt our financial performance or our ability to grow our business. 
  Our lodging operations are subject to global, regional, and national conditions.   Because we conduct our business on a global platform, changes in global and regional economies impact our activities. In recent years, decreases in travel resulting from weak economic conditions and the heightened travel security measures that have resulted from the threat of further terrorism have hurt our business. Our future performance could be similarly affected by the economic environment in each of our operating regions, the resulting unknown pace of business travel, and any future incidents in those regions. 
  The growing significance of our operations outside of the United States, particularly following the Starwood Combination, makes us increasingly susceptible to the risks of doing business internationally, which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, reduce our profits, disrupt our business, or damage our reputation.   We currently operate or franchise hotels and resorts in   87   countries, and our operations outside the United States represented approximately   19   percent of our revenues in   2015  . In addition, Starwood reported that as of September 30, 2015 it operated or franchised hotels and resorts in approximately 100 countries, and its operations outside the United States (including operations associated with Starwood s Vistana vacation ownership business which it is to spin off prior to our combination) represented a majority of Starwood s revenues in both 2014 and the nine months ending September 30, 2015. We expect that our international revenues will continue to grow, particularly following the Starwood Combination. As a result, we are increasingly exposed to the challenges and risks of doing business outside the United States, many of which are outside of our control, and which could reduce our revenues or profits, increase our costs, result in significant liabilities or sanctions, otherwise disrupt our business, or damage our reputation. These challenges include: (1) compliance with complex and changing laws, regulations and government policies that may impact our operations, such as foreign ownership restrictions, import and export controls, and trade restrictions; (2) compliance with U.S. and foreign laws that affect the activities of companies abroad, such as competition laws, currency regulations, and other laws affecting dealings with certain nations; (3) limitations on our ability to repatriate non-U.S. earnings in a tax effective manner; (4) the difficulties involved in managing an organization doing business in many different countries; (5) uncertainties as to the enforceability of contract and intellectual property rights under local laws; (6) rapid changes in government policy, political or civil unrest in the Middle East and elsewhere, acts of terrorism, or the threat of international boycotts or U.S. anti-boycott legislation; and (7) currency exchange rate fluctuations, which may impact the results and cash flows of our international operations. 
  Any failure by our international operations to comply with anti-corruption laws or trade sanctions could increase our costs, reduce our profits, limit our growth, harm our reputation, or subject us to broader liability.   We are subject to restrictions imposed by the U.S. Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and anti-corruption laws and regulations of other countries applicable to our operations, such as the UK Bribery Act. Anti-corruption laws and regulations generally prohibit companies and their intermediaries from making improper payments to government officials or other persons in order to receive or retain business. The compliance programs, internal controls and policies we maintain and enforce to promote compliance with applicable anti-bribery and anti-corruption laws may not prevent our associates, contractors or agents from acting in ways prohibited by these  
     15 

       Table of Contents  

   laws and regulations. We are also subject to trade sanctions administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control and the U.S. Department of Commerce. Our compliance programs and internal controls also may not prevent conduct that is prohibited under these rules. The United States may impose additional sanctions at any time against any country in which or with whom we do business. Depending on the nature of the sanctions imposed, our operations in the relevant country could be restricted or otherwise adversely affected. Any violations of anti-corruption laws and regulations or trade sanctions could result in significant civil and criminal penalties, reduce our profits, disrupt our business or damage our reputation. In addition, an imposition of further restrictions in these areas could increase our cost of operations, reduce our profits or cause us to forgo development opportunities that would otherwise support growth. 
  Exchange rate fluctuations and foreign exchange hedging arrangements could result in significant foreign currency gains and losses and affect our business results.   We earn revenues and incur expenses in foreign currencies as part of our operations outside of the United States. Accordingly, fluctuations in currency exchange rates may significantly increase the amount of U.S. dollars required for foreign currency expenses or significantly decrease the U.S. dollars we receive from foreign currency revenues. We are also exposed to currency translation risk because the results of our business outside of the U.S. are generally reported in local currency, which we then translate to U.S. dollars for inclusion in our consolidated financial statements. As a result, changes between the foreign exchange rates and the U.S. dollar affect the amounts we record for our foreign assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and could have a negative effect on our financial results. We expect that our exposure to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations will grow as the relative contribution of our non-U.S. operations increases. Our efforts to mitigate some of our foreign currency exposure by entering into foreign exchange hedging agreements with financial institutions to reduce exposures to some of the principal currencies in which we receive management and franchise fees may not be successful. In this regard, these hedging agreements do not cover all currencies in which we do business, do not eliminate foreign currency risk entirely for the currencies that they do cover, and involve costs and risks of their own in the form of transaction costs, credit requirements and counterparty risk.  
  Some of our management agreements and related contracts require us to make payments to owners if the hotels do not achieve specified levels of operating profit.   Some of our contracts with hotel owners require that we fund shortfalls if the hotels do not attain specified levels of operating profit. We may not be able to recover any fundings of such performance guarantees, which could lower our profits and reduce our cash flows.  
  Our new programs and new branded products may not be successful.   We cannot assure you that recently launched, newly acquired, or recently announced brands, such as EDITION, AC Hotels by Marriott in the Americas, Protea Hotels, Moxy Hotels, and Delta Hotels and Resorts, and those expected to be acquired as a result of the Starwood Combination, or any other new programs or products we may launch in the future will be accepted by hotel owners, potential franchisees, or the traveling public or other customers. We also cannot be certain that we will recover the costs we incurred in developing or acquiring the brands or any new programs or products, or that the brands or any new programs or products will be successful. In addition, some of our new brands involve or may involve cooperation and/or consultation with one or more third parties, including some shared control over product design and development, sales and marketing, and brand standards. Disagreements with these third parties could slow the development of these new brands and/or impair our ability to take actions we believe to be advisable for the success and profitability of such brands.  
  Risks relating to natural or man-made disasters, contagious disease, terrorist activity, and war could reduce the demand for lodging, which may adversely affect our revenues.   So called  Acts of God,  such as hurricanes, earthquakes, tsunamis, and other natural disasters, such as Hurricane Sandy in the Northeastern United States, the earthquake and tsunami in Japan, and man-made disasters in recent years as well as the potential spread of contagious diseases such as MERS (Middle East Respiratory Syndrome), Zika virus, and Ebola in locations where we own, manage, or franchise significant properties and areas of the world from which we draw a large number of customers, could cause a decline in business or leisure travel and reduce demand for lodging. Actual or threatened war, terrorist activity, political unrest, or civil strife, such as recent events in Ukraine and Russia, the Middle East, and other geopolitical uncertainty could have a similar effect. Any one or more of these events may reduce the overall demand for hotel rooms and corporate apartments or limit the prices that we can obtain for them, both of which could adversely affect our profits. 
  Disagreements with owners of hotels that we manage or franchise may result in litigation or may delay implementation of product or service initiatives.   Consistent with our focus on management and franchising, we own very few of our lodging properties. The nature of our responsibilities under our management agreements to manage each hotel and enforce the standards required for our brands under both management and franchise agreements may be subject to interpretation and will from time to time give rise to disagreements, which may include disagreements over the need for or payment for new product or service initiatives and the timing and amount of capital investments. Such disagreements may be more likely when hotel returns are weaker. We seek to resolve any disagreements in order to develop and maintain positive relations with current and potential hotel owners and joint venture partners, but we are not always able to do so. Failure to resolve such disagreements has resulted in litigation, and could do so in the future. If any such litigation results in a significant adverse judgment, settlement, or court  
     16 

       Table of Contents  

   order, we could suffer significant losses, our profits could be reduced, or our future ability to operate our business could be constrained. 
  Our business depends on the quality and reputation of our brands, and any deterioration in the quality or reputation of these brands could have an adverse impact on our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations.   Events that may be beyond our control could affect the reputation of one or more of our properties or more generally impact the reputation of our brands. If the reputation or perceived quality of our brands declines, our market share, reputation, business, financial condition, or results of operations could be affected. 
  Actions by our franchisees and licensees could adversely affect our image and reputation.   We franchise and license many of our brand names and trademarks to third parties in connection with lodging, timeshare, residential services, and our credit card programs. Under the terms of their agreements with us, our franchisees and licensees interact directly with customers and other third parties under our brand and trade names. If these franchisees or licensees fail to maintain or act in accordance with applicable brand standards; experience operational problems, including any data breach involving customer information; or project a brand image inconsistent with ours, our image and reputation could suffer. Although our franchise and license agreements provide us with recourse and remedies in the event of a breach by the franchisee or licensee, including termination of the agreements under certain circumstances, pursuing any such recourse, remedy, or termination could be expensive and time consuming  .   In addition, we cannot assure you that a court would ultimately enforce our contractual termination rights in every instance. 
  Damage to, or losses involving, properties that we own, manage, or franchise may not be covered by insurance.   We have comprehensive property and liability insurance policies for our managed, leased, and owned properties with coverage features and insured limits that we believe are customary, and require our franchisees to maintain similar levels of insurance. Market forces beyond our control may nonetheless limit the scope of the insurance coverage we or our franchisees can obtain, or our or their ability to obtain coverage at reasonable rates. Certain types of losses, generally of a catastrophic nature, such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods, or terrorist acts, or liabilities that result from breaches in the security of our information systems, may be uninsurable or too expensive to justify obtaining insurance. As a result, we and our franchisees may not be successful in obtaining insurance without increases in cost or decreases in coverage levels. In addition, in the event of a substantial loss, the insurance coverage we or our franchisees carry may not be sufficient to pay the full market value or replacement cost of any lost investment or in some cases could result in certain losses being totally uninsured. As a result, we could lose some or all of any capital that we have invested in a property, as well as the anticipated future revenue from the property, and we could remain obligated for guarantees, debt, or other financial obligations for the property. 
  Development and Financing Risks 
  While   w  e are predominantly a manager and franchisor of hotel properties, our hotel owners depend on capital to buy, develop, and improve hotels, and our hotel owners may be unable to access capital when necessary.   In order to fund new hotel investments, as well as refurbish and improve existing hotels, both we and current and potential hotel owners must periodically spend money. The availability of funds for new investments and improvement of existing hotels by our current and potential hotel owners depends in large measure on capital markets and liquidity factors, over which we can exert little control. The difficulty of obtaining financing on attractive terms may be constrained by the capital markets for hotel and real estate investments. In addition, owners of existing hotels that we franchise or manage may have difficulty meeting required debt service payments or refinancing loans at maturity. 
  Our growth strategy depends upon third-party owners/operators, and future arrangements with these third parties may be less favorable.   Our growth strategy for development of additional lodging facilities entails entering into and maintaining various arrangements with property owners. The terms of our management agreements, franchise agreements, and leases for each of our lodging facilities are influenced by contract terms offered by our competitors, among other things. We cannot assure you that any of our current arrangements will continue or that we will be able to enter into future collaborations, renew agreements, or enter into new agreements in the future on terms that are as favorable to us as those that exist today. 
  Our ability to grow our management and franchise systems is subject to the range of risks associated with real estate investments.   Our ability to sustain continued growth through management or franchise agreements for new hotels and the conversion of existing facilities to managed or franchised Marriott brands is affected, and may potentially be limited, by a variety of factors influencing real estate development generally. These include site availability, financing, planning, zoning and other local approvals, and other limitations that may be imposed by market and submarket factors, such as projected room occupancy, changes in growth in demand compared to projected supply, territorial restrictions in our management and franchise agreements, costs of construction, and anticipated room rate structure. 
  Our development activities expose us to project cost, completion, and resale risks.   We develop new hotel and residential properties, both directly and through partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures with third parties. As  
     17 

       Table of Contents  

   demonstrated by the impairment charges that we recorded in 2015 and 2014 in connection with our development and construction of three EDITION hotels and residences, our ongoing involvement in the development of properties presents a number of risks, including that: (1) continued weakness in the capital markets may limit our ability, or that of third parties with whom we do business, to raise capital for completion of projects that have commenced or for development of future properties; (2) properties that we develop could become less attractive due to decreases in demand for hotel and residential properties, market absorption or oversupply, with the result that we may not be able to sell such properties for a profit or at the prices or selling pace we anticipate, potentially requiring additional changes in our pricing strategy that could result in further charges; (3) construction delays, cost overruns, lender financial defaults, or so called  Acts of God  such as earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, or fires may increase overall project costs or result in project cancellations; and (4) we may be unable to recover development costs we incur for any projects that we do not pursue to completion. 
  Development activities that involve our co-investment with third parties may result in disputes that could increase project costs, impair project operations, or increase project completion risks.   Partnerships, joint ventures, and other business structures involving our co-investment with third parties generally include some form of shared control over the operations of the business and create added risks, including the possibility that other investors in such ventures could become bankrupt or otherwise lack the financial resources to meet their obligations, or could have or develop business interests, policies, or objectives that are inconsistent with ours. Although we actively seek to minimize such risks before investing in partnerships, joint ventures, or similar structures, actions by another investor may present additional risks of project delay, increased project costs, or operational difficulties following project completion. Such disputes may also be more likely in difficult business environments. 
  Risks associated with development and sale of residential properties associated with our lodging properties or brands may reduce our profits.   In certain hotel and timeshare projects we participate, directly or through noncontrolling interests and/or licensing agreements, in the development and sale of residential properties associated with our brands, including residences and condominiums under our The Ritz-Carlton, EDITION, JW Marriott, Autograph Collection, and Marriott brand names and trademarks. Such projects pose further risks beyond those generally associated with our lodging business, which may reduce our profits or compromise our brand equity, including the following: (1) weakness in residential real estate and demand generally may reduce our profits and could make it more difficult to convince future hotel development partners of the value added by our brands; (2) increases in interest rates, reductions in mortgage availability, or increases in the costs of residential ownership could prevent potential customers from buying residential products or reduce the prices they are willing to pay; and (3) residential construction may be subject to warranty and liability claims, and the costs of resolving such claims may be significant. 
  Some hotel openings in our existing development pipeline and approved projects may be delayed or not result in new hotels, which could adversely affect our growth prospects.   We report a significant number of hotels in our development pipeline, including hotels under construction and under signed contracts, as well as hotels approved for development but not yet under signed contracts. The eventual opening of such pipeline hotels and, in particular, the hotels approved for development that are not yet under contract, is subject to numerous risks, including in some cases the owner s or developer s ability to obtain adequate financing or governmental or regulatory approvals. Accordingly, we cannot assure you that our development pipeline, and in particular hotels not yet under contract, will result in new hotels that enter our system, or that those hotels will open when we anticipate. 
  If we incur losses on loans or loan guarantees that we have made to third parties, our profits could decline.   At times, we make loans for hotel development or renovation expenditures in connection with entering into or amending management or franchise agreements. From time to time we also provide third-party lenders financial guarantees for the timely repayment of all or a portion of debt related to hotels that we manage or franchise, generally subject to an obligation that the owner reimburse us for any fundings. We could suffer losses if hotel owners or franchisees default on loans that we provide or fail to reimburse us for loan guarantees that we have funded. 
  If owners of hotels that we manage or franchise cannot repay or refinance mortgage loans secured by their properties, our revenues and profits could decrease and our business could be harmed.   The owners of many of our managed or franchised properties have pledged their hotels as collateral for mortgage loans that they entered into when those properties were purchased or refinanced. If those owners cannot repay or refinance maturing indebtedness on favorable terms or at all, the lenders could declare a default, accelerate the related debt, and repossess the property. Such sales or repossessions could, in some cases, result in the termination of our management or franchise agreements and eliminate our anticipated income and cash flows, which could negatively affect our results of operations.  
  Planned transactions we announce may be delayed, not occur at all, or involve unanticipated costs.   From time to time we announce transactions that we expect will close at a future date, such as our anticipated acquisition of Starwood Hotels    
     18 

       Table of Contents  

   Resorts. If the conditions to consummating these transactions are neither satisfied nor waived by the time we expect, the closings could be delayed or not occur at all. 
  Technology, Information Protection, and Privacy Risks 
  A failure to keep pace with developments in technology could impair our operations or competitive position.   The lodging industry continues to demand the use of sophisticated technology and systems, including those used for our reservation, revenue management, and property management systems, our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards programs, and technologies we make available to our guests. These technologies and systems must be refined, updated, and/or replaced with more advanced systems on a regular basis, and if we cannot do so as quickly as our competitors or within budgeted costs and time frames, our business could suffer. We also may not achieve the benefits that we anticipate from any new technology or system, and a failure to do so could result in higher than anticipated costs or could impair our operating results. 
  An increase in the use of third-party Internet services to book online hotel reservations could adversely impact our business.   Some of our hotel rooms are booked through Internet travel intermediaries such as Expedia.com       , Priceline.com       , Booking.com , Travelocity.com       , and Orbitz.com       , as well as lesser-known online travel service providers. These intermediaries initially focused on leisure travel, but now also provide offerings for corporate travel and group meetings. Although Marriott s Look No Further        Best Rate Guarantee has helped prevent customer preference shift to the intermediaries and greatly reduced the ability of intermediaries to undercut the published rates at our hotels, intermediaries continue to use a variety of aggressive online marketing methods to attract customers, including the purchase, by certain companies, of trademarked online keywords such as  Marriott  from Internet search engines such as Google       , Bing       , Yahoo       , and Baidu        to steer customers toward their websites (a practice that has been challenged by various trademark owners in federal court). Although Marriott has successfully limited these practices through contracts with key online intermediaries, the number of intermediaries and related companies that drive traffic to intermediaries  websites is too large to permit us to eliminate this risk entirely. Our business and profitability could be harmed if online intermediaries succeed in significantly shifting loyalties from our lodging brands to their travel services, diverting bookings away from Marriott.com, or through their fees increasing the overall cost of Internet bookings for our hotels. In addition, if we fail to reach satisfactory agreements with intermediaries as our contracts with them come up for periodic renewal, our hotels might no longer appear on their websites and we could lose business as a result. 
  We are exposed to risks and costs associated with protecting the integrity and security of internal and customer data.     Our businesses process, use, and transmit large volumes of internal employee and customer data, including credit card numbers and other personal information in various information systems that we maintain and in those maintained by third parties, including our owners, franchisees and licensees, as well as our service providers, in areas such as human resources outsourcing, website hosting, and various forms of electronic communications. The integrity and protection of that customer, employee, and company data is critical to our business. If that data is inaccurate or incomplete, we could make faulty decisions.  
  Our customers and employees also have a high expectation that we, as well as our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers, will adequately protect their personal information. The information, security, and privacy requirements imposed by governmental regulation and the requirements of the payment card industry are also increasingly demanding, in both the United States and other jurisdictions where we operate. Our systems and the systems maintained or used by our owners, franchisees, licensees, and service providers may not be able to satisfy these changing requirements and employee and customer expectations, or may require significant additional investments or time in order to do so.  
  Cyber-attacks could have a disruptive effect on our business.   Efforts to hack or breach security measures, failures of systems or software to operate as designed or intended, viruses, operator error, or inadvertent releases of data may materially impact our, including our owners , franchisees , licensees , or service providers , information systems and records. Our reliance on computer, Internet-based and mobile systems and communications and the frequency and sophistication of efforts by hackers to gain unauthorized access to such systems have increased significantly in recent years. A significant theft, loss, or fraudulent use of customer, employee, or company data could adversely impact our reputation and could result in remedial and other expenses, fines, or litigation. Breaches in the security of our information systems or those of our owners, franchisees, licensees, or service providers or other disruptions in data services could lead to an interruption in the operation of our systems, resulting in operational inefficiencies and a loss of profits. In addition, although we carry cyber/privacy liability insurance that is designed to protect us against certain losses related to cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in connection with cyber-attacks, security breaches, and other related breaches. 
  Changes in privacy law could increase our operating costs and adversely affect our ability to market our products effectively.   We are subject to numerous laws, regulations, and contractual obligations designed to protect personal information, including foreign data protection laws, various U.S. federal and state laws, and credit card industry security standards and other  
     19 

       Table of Contents  

   applicable information privacy and security standards. Compliance with changes in applicable privacy regulations may increase our operating costs.  
  Additionally, we rely on a variety of direct marketing techniques, including email marketing, online advertising, and postal mailings. Any further restrictions in laws such as the CANSPAM Act, and various U.S. state laws, or new federal laws on marketing and solicitation or international data protection laws that govern these activities could adversely affect the continuing effectiveness of email, online advertising, and postal mailing techniques and could force further changes in our marketing strategy. If this occurs, we may not be able to develop adequate alternative marketing strategies, which could impact the amount and timing of our sales of certain products. We also obtain access to potential customers from travel service providers or other companies with whom we have substantial relationships and market to some individuals on these lists directly or by including our marketing message in the other company s marketing materials. If access to these lists was prohibited or otherwise restricted, our ability to develop new customers and introduce them to our products could be impaired. 
  Any disruption in the functioning of our reservation system, such as in connection with the Starwood Combination, could adversely affect our performance and results.   We manage a global reservation system that communicates reservations to our branded hotels that individuals make directly with us online, through our mobile app, or through our telephone call centers, or through intermediaries like travel agents, Internet travel web sites and other distribution channels. The cost, speed, accuracy and efficiency of our reservation system are critical aspects of our business and are important considerations for hotel owners when choosing our brands. Our business may suffer if we fail to maintain, upgrade, or prevent disruption to our reservation system. In addition, the risk of disruption in the functioning of our global reservation system could increase in connection with the system integration that we anticipate undertaking following consummation of the Starwood Combination. Disruptions in or changes to our reservation system could result in a disruption to our business and the loss of important data. 
  Other Risks 
  Changes in laws and regulations could reduce our profits or increase our costs.   We are subject to a wide variety of laws, regulations, and policies in jurisdictions around the world, including those for financial reporting, taxes, healthcare, and the environment. Changes to these laws, regulations, or policies, including those associated with health care, tax or financial reforms, could reduce our profits. We also anticipate that many of the jurisdictions where we do business will continue to review taxes and other revenue raising measures, and any resulting changes could impose new restrictions, costs, or prohibitions on our current practices or reduce our profits. In particular, governments may revise tax laws, regulations, or official interpretations in ways that could significantly impact us, including modifications that could reduce the profits that we can effectively realize from our non-U.S. operations, or that could require costly changes to those operations, or the way in which they are structured. For example, most U.S. company effective tax rates reflect the fact that income earned and reinvested outside the United States is generally taxed at local rates, which are often much lower than U.S. tax rates. If changes in tax laws, regulations, or interpretations significantly increase the tax rates on non-U.S. income, our effective tax rate could increase and our profits could be reduced. If such increases resulted from our status as a U.S. company, those changes could place us at a disadvantage to our non-U.S. competitors if those competitors remain subject to lower local tax rates. 
  If we cannot attract and retain talented associates, our business could suffer.   We compete with other companies both within and outside of our industry for talented personnel. If we cannot recruit, train, develop, and retain sufficient numbers of talented associates, we could experience increased associate turnover, decreased guest satisfaction, low morale, inefficiency, or internal control failures. Insufficient numbers of talented associates could also limit our ability to grow and expand our businesses. Any shortage of skilled labor could also require higher wages that would increase our labor costs, which could reduce our profits. 
  Delaware law and our governing corporate documents contain, and our Board of Directors could implement, anti-takeover provisions that could deter takeover attempts.   Under the Delaware business combination statute, a shareholder holding 15 percent or more of our outstanding voting stock could not acquire us without Board of Director consent for at least three years after the date the shareholder first held 15 percent or more of the voting stock. Our governing corporate documents also, among other things, require supermajority votes for mergers and similar transactions. In addition, our Board of Directors could, without shareholder approval, implement other anti-takeover defenses, such as a shareholder rights plan. 
    Item 1B.     Unresolved Staff Comments.  
  None. 
             Item 2. 
    Properties. 
     We describe our company-operated properties in Part I, Item 1.  Business  earlier in this report, and under the     Properties by Segment      caption in Part II, Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of  
     20 

     Table of Contents  

   Operations.  We believe our properties are in generally good physical condition with the need for only routine repairs and maintenance and periodic capital improvements. Most of our regional offices and reservation centers are located in leased facilities. We also lease space in a number of buildings with combined space of approximately 1.1 million square feet in Maryland where our corporate and The Ritz-Carlton headquarters are located. 
             Item 3.  
    Legal Proceedings. 
     See the information under  Legal Proceedings  in Footnote No.   7  ,    Commitments and Contingencies    which we incorporate here by reference. 
  From time to time, we are also subject to other legal proceedings and claims in the ordinary course of business, including adjustments proposed during governmental examinations of the various tax returns we file. While management presently believes that the ultimate outcome of these proceedings, individually and in the aggregate, will not materially harm our financial position, cash flows, or overall trends in results of operations, legal proceedings are inherently uncertain, and unfavorable rulings could, individually or in aggregate, have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, or operating results. 
             Item 4.  
    Mine Safety Disclosures. 
     Not applicable. 
  Executive Officers of the Registrant 
  See the information under  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part III, Item 10 of this report for information about our executive officers, which we incorporate here by reference. 
     21 

       Table of Contents  

   PART II 
             Item 5.  
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities. 
       Market Information and Dividends 
  The table below presents the price range of our Class A Common Stock (our  common stock ) and the per share cash dividends we declared for each fiscal quarter during the last two years. 

At February 5, 2016,   253,481,935   shares of our common stock were outstanding and were held by   32,947   shareholders of record. Since October 21, 2013, our common stock has traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market ( NASDAQ ) and the Chicago Stock Exchange. Before October 21, 2013, our common stock traded on the New York Stock Exchange and the Chicago Stock Exchange. The fiscal year-end closing price for our stock was $67.04 on December 31,   2015  , and $78.03 on December 31,   2014  . All prices are reported on the consolidated transaction reporting system. 
    Fourth Quarter 2015 Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 

(1)   
    On February 12, 2015, we announced that our Board of Directors had increased the authorization to repurchase our common stock by 25 million shares as part of an ongoing share repurchase program. At year-end   2015  ,   14.4 million   shares remained available for repurchase under previous authorizations.     In addition, on    February 11, 2016   , we announced that our Board of Directors further increased our common stock repurchase authorization by   25 million   shares. We repurchase shares in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions.  
        22 

       Table of Contents  

   Item 6.     Selected Financial Data. 
  The following table presents a summary of our selected historical financial data derived from our last 10 years of Financial Statements. Because this information is only a summary and does not provide all of the information contained in our Financial Statements, including the related notes, you should read  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  and our Financial Statements for each year for more detailed information including, among other items, restructuring costs and other charges we incurred in 2008 and 2009, timeshare strategy-impairment charges we incurred in 2009 and 2011, and our 2011 spin-off of our former timeshare operations and timeshare development business. For periods before the 2011 spin-off, we continue to include our former Timeshare segment in our historical financial results as a component of continuing operations because of our significant continuing involvement in MVW s future operations. 

(2)   
    Balances do not reflect the impact of discontinued operations. Also, for periods prior to 2009, we reclassified our provision for loan losses associated with our lodging operations to the  General, administrative, and other  caption of our Income Statements to conform to our presentation for periods beginning in 2009. This reclassification only affected operating income. 
               (3)   
    We adopted certain provisions of Accounting Standards Certification Topic 978 (previously Statement of Position 04-2,  Accounting for Real Estate Time Sharing Transactions ), in 2006, which we reported in our Income Statements as a cumulative effect of change in accounting principle. 
               (4)   
    The following businesses became discontinued operations in the year we announced that we would sell or exit them: synthetic fuel (2007). 
               (5)   
    We issued stock dividends in the third and fourth quarters of 2009, and a stock split in the form of a stock dividend on June 9, 2006. We have adjusted all per share data retroactively to reflect those stock dividends.  
               (6)   
    Represents fee revenue from the United States (but not Hawaii before 2011) and Canada. 
               (7)   
    Represents fee revenue outside of North America, as defined in footnote (6) above. 
               (8)   
    Effective year-end 2014, we adopted ASU No. 2015-03, which changes the presentation of debt issuance costs, and ASU No. 2015-17, which changes the classification of deferred taxes. Prior periods have not been adjusted for these new accounting standards. 
        23 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 7.  
    Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations. 
       BUSINESS AND OVERVIEW 
  Overview  
  We are a worldwide operator, franchisor, and licensor of hotels and timeshare properties in   87   countries and territories under 19 brand names. We also develop, operate, and market residential properties and provide services to home/condominium owner associations. Under our business model, we typically manage or franchise hotels, rather than own them. We group our operations into   three   business segments:   North American Full-Service  ,   North American Limited-Service  , and   International  . 
   
  We earn base management fees and in many cases incentive management fees from the properties that we manage, and we earn franchise fees on the properties that others operate under franchise agreements with us. Base fees typically consist of a percentage of property-level revenue while incentive fees typically consist of a percentage of net house profit adjusted for a specified owner return. Net house profit is calculated as gross operating profit (house profit) less non-controllable expenses such as insurance, real estate taxes, and capital spending reserves.  
  Our emphasis on long-term management contracts and franchising tends to provide more stable earnings in periods of economic softness, while adding new hotels to our system generates growth, typically with little or no investment by the Company. This strategy has driven substantial growth while minimizing financial leverage and risk in a cyclical industry. In addition, we believe minimizing our capital investments and adopting a strategy of recycling the investments that we do make maximizes and maintains our financial flexibility. 
  We remain focused on doing the things that we do well; that is, selling rooms, taking care of our guests, and making sure we control costs both at company-operated properties and at the corporate level ( above-property ). Our brands remain strong as a result of skilled management teams, dedicated associates, superior customer service with an emphasis on guest and associate satisfaction, significant distribution, our Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards loyalty programs, a multichannel reservations system, and desirable property amenities. We strive to effectively leverage our size and broad distribution.  
  We, along with owners and franchisees, continue to invest in our brands by means of new, refreshed, and reinvented properties, new room and public space designs, and enhanced amenities and technology offerings. We address, through various means, hotels in our system that do not meet standards. We continue to enhance the appeal of our proprietary, information-rich, and easy-to-use website, Marriott.com, and of our associated mobile smartphone applications and mobile website that connect to Marriott.com, through functionality and service improvements, and we expect to continue capturing an increasing proportion of property-level reservations via this cost-efficient channel. 
  Our profitability, as well as that of owners and franchisees, has benefited from our approach to property-level and above-property productivity. Properties in our system continue to maintain very tight cost controls. We also control above-property costs, some of which we allocate to hotels, by remaining focused on systems, processing, and support areas.  
     24 

     Table of Contents  

    Pending Combination with Starwood Hotels   Resorts Worldwide, Inc.  
  On November 15, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the  Merger Agreement ) to combine with Starwood Hotels   Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ( Starwood ). The Merger Agreement provides for the Company to combine with Starwood in a series of transactions after which Starwood will be an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company (the  Starwood Combination ). If these transactions are completed, shareholders of Starwood will receive 0.920 shares of our Class A Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share, and $2.00 in cash, without interest, for each share of Starwood common stock, par value $0.01 per share, that they own immediately before these transactions. We expect that the combination will close in mid-2016, after customary conditions are satisfied, including shareholder approvals, required antitrust approvals, and the completion of Starwood s previously announced spin-off of its vacation ownership business, or another spin-off, split-off, analogous disposition, or sale of its vacation ownership business. 
  Performance Measures  
  We believe Revenue per Available Room ( RevPAR ), which we calculate by dividing room sales for comparable properties by room nights available for the period, is a meaningful indicator of our performance because it measures the period-over-period change in room revenues for comparable properties. RevPAR may not be comparable to similarly titled measures, such as revenues. We also believe occupancy and average daily rate ( ADR ), which are components of calculating RevPAR, are meaningful indicators of our performance. Occupancy, which we calculate by dividing occupied rooms by total rooms available, measures the utilization of a property s available capacity. ADR, which we calculate by dividing property room revenue by total rooms sold, measures average room price and is useful in assessing pricing levels. 
  References to year-end   2015   RevPAR statistics throughout this report, including occupancy and ADR, reflect the twelve months ended December 31,   2015  , as compared to the twelve months ended December 31,   2014  . For the properties located in countries that use currencies other than the U.S. dollar, the comparisons to the prior year period are on a constant U.S. dollar basis. We calculate constant dollar statistics by applying exchange rates for the current period to the prior comparable period. 
  We define our comparable properties as those that were open and operating under one of our brands since the beginning of the last full calendar year (since January 1, 2014 for the current period), and have not, in either the current or previous year: (i) undergone significant room or public space renovations or expansions, (ii) been converted between company-operated and franchised, or (iii) sustained substantial property damage or business interruption. Comparable properties represented the following percentages of our properties for each year indicated: (1) 86% of North American properties (87% excluding Delta Hotels and Resorts) in   2015  , 87% in   2014  , and 89% in   2013  ; (2) 57% of International properties (68% excluding Protea Hotels) in   2015  , 57% (71% excluding Protea Hotels) in   2014  , and 75% in   2013  ; and (3) 82% of total properties (85% excluding Protea Hotels and Delta Hotels and Resorts) in   2015  , 82% of total properties (85% excluding Protea Hotels) in   2014  , and 87% in   2013  . 
  We also believe company-operated house profit margin, which is the ratio of property-level gross operating profit to total property-level revenue, is a meaningful indicator of our performance because this ratio measures our overall ability as the operator to produce property-level profits by generating sales and controlling the operating expenses over which we have the most direct control. House profit includes room, food and beverage, and other revenue and the related expenses including payroll and benefits expenses, as well as repairs and maintenance, utility, general and administrative, and sales and marketing expenses. House profit does not include the impact of management fees, furniture, fixtures and equipment replacement reserves, insurance, taxes, or other fixed expenses. 
  Business Trends 
  Our   2015   results reflected a favorable economic climate and demand for our brands in many markets around the world, reflecting generally low supply growth in the U.S. and Europe, moderate GDP growth in North America, improved pricing in most North American markets, and a year-over-year increase in the number of properties in our system. Comparable worldwide systemwide RevPAR for   2015   increased   5.2 percent   to   $112.25  , average daily rates increased   4.1 percent   on a constant dollar basis to   $152.30  , and occupancy increased   0.8   percentage points to   73.7   percent, compared to   2014  .  
  Generally strong U.S. group business and transient demand contributed to increased room rate growth in   2015  , allowing us to eliminate discounts, shift business into higher rated price categories, and raise room rates. The growth was partially constrained by new select-service lodging supply and moderating GDP growth late in the year.  
  In   2015  , bookings for future group business in the U.S. improved. New group business booked in 2015 for any period in the future increased 9 percent year over year. The   2016   group revenue pace for systemwide full-service hotels (Marriott, JW Marriott, Renaissance, The Ritz-Carlton, and Gaylord brands) in North America was up more than 6 percent as of year-end   2015  , compared to the   2015   group booking pace measured as of year-end   2014  . In North America, RevPAR from transient  
     25 

     Table of Contents  

   guests increased 5 percent in   2015   reflecting strong demand from professional services, technology, and defense firms moderated somewhat by weaker demand from manufacturing, pharmaceutical, and energy companies.  
  The Europe region experienced higher demand in   2015   across most countries, primarily due to increased group and transient business driven by special events and the weak currency, partially constrained by weaker demand in France, particularly late in the year. Results improved in Russia due to increased domestic travel. In the Asia Pacific region, demand increased led by growth from corporate and other transient business in Japan, India, Thailand, and Indonesia. The growth was partially offset by weaker results in South Korea. RevPAR in Greater China moderated in 2015 due to the impact of supply growth in certain Southern China markets, continued austerity in Beijing, and lower inbound travel to Hong Kong, while demand in Shanghai remained strong. Middle East demand was weaker in 2015, reflecting the region s instability and lower oil prices, partially offset by strong government and group demand in Saudi Arabia. Demand in the United Arab Emirates was constrained mainly by new supply and, to a lesser extent, a reduction in travelers from Russia. In Africa, results were favorable in 2015. In the Caribbean and Latin America, strong performance in the region in 2015 was driven by greater demand in Mexico and increased leisure travel to our Caribbean and Mexican resorts for most of the year, constrained somewhat by oversupply of hotels in Panama and weaker economies in Brazil and Puerto Rico.  
  We monitor market conditions and provide the tools for our hotels to price rooms daily in accordance with individual property demand levels, generally adjusting room rates as demand changes. Our hotels modify the mix of business to improve revenue as demand changes. Demand for higher rated rooms improved in most markets in 2015, which allowed our hotels to reduce discounting and special offers for transient business in many markets. This mix improvement benefited ADR. For our company-operated properties, we continue to focus on enhancing property-level house profit margins and making productivity improvements. 
    CONSOLIDATED RESULTS 
    The following discussion presents an analysis of results of our operations for   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  . 
  Revenues 
  2015 Compared to 2014      
      
  The   $26 million   increase in base management fees reflected stronger RevPAR ($29 million) and the impact of unit growth across our system ($25 million),     partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates ($11 million), lower fees due to properties that converted from managed to franchised ($7 million), and decreased recognition of previously deferred fees ($8 million). 
  The   $108 million   increase in total franchise fees reflected the impact of unit growth across our system ($55 million), stronger RevPAR due to increased demand ($31 million), increased relicensing and application fees ($22 million), and higher fees from properties that converted to franchised from managed ($7 million), partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates ($7 million).  
  The   $17 million   increase in incentive management fees reflected higher RevPAR and house profit margins primarily at company-managed North American properties, particularly at a few large portfolios of managed hotels whose improved net house profits allowed them to reach their owners priority threshold and begin to record incentive fees. Higher incentive fees also reflected the addition of hotels included in the Delta Hotels and Resorts acquisition, partially offset by $15 million in unfavorable foreign exchange rates and $7 million of lower incentive fees from properties under renovation.  
  The   $36 million     decrease   in owned, leased, and other revenue reflected $44 million of lower owned and leased revenue, partially offset by $8 million in higher other revenue predominantly from branding fees and hotel service programs that we  
     26 

     Table of Contents  

   acquired as part of our acquisition of Protea Hotels in the 2014 second quarter. Lower owned and leased revenue reflected net weaker performance impacted by unfavorable foreign exchange rates, a decrease of $27 million attributable to properties that converted to managed or franchised or left our system, and $16 million net unfavorable impact of properties under renovation, partially offset by increases of $10 million from Protea Hotel leases we acquired in the 2014 second quarter and $6 million from The Miami Beach EDITION hotel, which opened in the 2014 fourth quarter and which we subsequently sold in the 2015 first quarter as discussed in Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions  .  
  Cost reimbursements revenue represents reimbursements of costs incurred on behalf of managed and franchised properties and relates, predominantly, to payroll costs at managed properties where we are the employer but also includes reimbursements for other costs, such as those associated with our rewards programs, reservations, and marketing programs. As we record cost reimbursements based upon costs incurred with no added markup, this revenue and related expense has no impact on either our operating or net income. The   $575 million   increase in total cost reimbursements revenue reflected the impact of higher occupancies and growth across our system. Since the end of 2014, our managed rooms increased by   12,668   rooms and our franchised rooms increased by   31,883   rooms, net of rooms at hotels exiting our system. 
  2014 Compared to 2013   

  The $51 million increase in total base management fees, largely reflected stronger RevPAR due to increased demand ($34 million), the impact of unit growth across our system ($21 million),     and increased recognition of previously deferred fees ($16 million), partially offset by a decrease in fees from terminated units ($8 million), decreased fees due to properties that converted from managed to franchised ($8 million), unfavorable foreign exchange rates ($6 million), and three fewer days of activity ($2 million).  
  The $79 million increase in total franchise fees, reflected stronger RevPAR due to increased demand ($35 million), new unit growth across our system ($35 million), increased relicensing fees ($10 million), and fees from properties that converted to franchised from managed ($7 million), partially offset by a decrease in fees from terminated units ($4 million) and three fewer days of activity ($3 million).  
  The $46 million increase in incentive management fees largely reflected higher net house profit at our North American and International managed hotels in addition to unit growth in International markets, partially offset by the impact of unfavorable foreign exchange rates ($5 million) and higher North American Full-Service deferred fees recognized in 2013 ($5 million). We estimate that the three fewer days of activity in 2014 compared to 2013 reduced fee revenues by approximately $5 million. 
  The $72 million increase in owned, leased, and other revenue, predominantly reflected $56 million of higher owned and leased revenue, $17 million in revenue from various Protea Hotels programs, $9 million in higher branding fees, and $2 million in other program revenue, partially offset by $14 million lower termination fee revenue in 2014. Higher owned and leased revenue reflected $43 million from Protea Hotel leases associated with the acquisition, $30 million in revenue from a North American Full-Service managed property that we acquired in the 2013 fourth quarter, and stronger performance across our new and existing owned and leased International properties, partially offset by $37 million attributable to five International properties that converted to managed or franchised properties. Combined branding fees for credit card endorsements and the sale of branded residential real estate by others totaled $127 million in 2014 and $118 million in 2013. 
  The $764 million increase in total cost reimbursements revenue reflected the impact of higher occupancies at our properties and growth across our system.  
     27 

       Table of Contents  

   Operating Income 
  2015 Compared to 2014 
  Operating income increased by   $191 million   to   $1,350 million   in   2015   from   $1,159 million   in   2014  . The   $191 million   increase in operating income reflected a   $108 million   increase in franchise fees, a   $26 million   increase in base management fees, a   $25 million   decrease in general, administrative, and other expenses, a   $17 million   increase in incentive management fees, a   $9 million   decrease in depreciation, amortization, and other expense, and   $6 million   of higher owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses. We discuss the reasons for the increases in base management fees, franchise fees, and incentive management fees compared to   2014   in the preceding  Revenues  section. 
  The   $6 million   (  2 percent  ) increase in owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses was largely attributable to $4 million in higher branding fees. Owned and leased revenue, net of direct expenses was unchanged as stronger results at several of our International properties, including $4 million of lower lease payments for properties that moved to managed, franchised, or left our system, were offset by $10 million of weaker performance due to renovations. 
  Depreciation, amortization and other expense decreased by   $9 million   (  6 percent  ) to   $139 million   in   2015   from   $148 million   in   2014  . The decrease reflected a $25 million favorable variance to the 2014 impairment charge on the EDITION hotels, partially offset by the 2015 impairment charges of $6 million for The Miami Beach EDITION residences and $6 million for The New York (Madison Square Park) EDITION, which are both discussed in Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions  ,  and   a $4 million impairment charge on corporate equipment. 
  General, administrative, and other expenses decreased by   $25 million   (  4 percent  ) to   $634 million   in   2015   from   $659 million   in   2014  . The decrease largely reflected a $28 million net favorable impact to our legal expenses associated with litigation resolutions, $24 million of development costs that we deferred in 2015 related to our growing franchise pipeline, and $5 million in lower foreign exchange losses compared to the 2014 devaluation of assets denominated in Venezuelan Bolivars, partially offset by $20 million of higher costs incurred to grow our brands globally, $5 million of transaction costs related to the Starwood Combination, and $5 million from the Delta Hotels and Resorts acquisition. 
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  Operating income increased by $171 million to $1,159 million in 2014 from $988 million in 2013. The $171 million increase in operating income reflected a $79 million increase in franchise fees, a $51 million increase in base management fees, a $46 million increase in incentive management fees, and $26 million of higher owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses, partially offset by a $21 million increase in depreciation, amortization, and other expense, and a $10 million increase in general, administrative, and other expenses. We discuss the reasons for the increases in base management fees, franchise fees, and incentive management fees compared to 2013 in the preceding  Revenues  section. 
  The $26 million (12 percent) increase in owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses was largely attributable to $23 million of higher owned and leased revenue, net of direct expenses, $9 million in higher branding fees, $4 million from various programs at Protea Hotels, and $2 million in other program revenue, partially offset by $14 million in higher termination fees in 2013. Higher owned and leased revenue, net of direct expenses of $23 million primarily reflects $14 million in net favorable results at several leased properties, $10 million of revenue, net of direct expenses for a North American Full-Service managed property that we acquired in the 2013 fourth quarter, and $7 million of revenue, net of direct expenses for new Protea Hotel leases, partially offset by $6 million attributable to International properties that converted to managed or franchised. 
  Depreciation, amortization and other expense increased by $21 million (17 percent) to $148 million in 2014 from $127 million in 2013. The increase reflected the $25 million net impairment charge on the EDITION hotels discussed in Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions  ,  $5 million in accelerated amortization related to contract terminations, $5 million in higher contract amortization primarily from Protea Hotels, and $3 million in higher depreciation related to a North American Full-Service property that we acquired in the 2013 fourth quarter, partially offset by $13 million of accelerated amortization related to contract terminations in 2013 and $5 million of 2013 depreciation for two International properties that converted to managed contracts. 
  General, administrative, and other expenses increased by $10 million (2 percent) to $659 million in 2014 from $649 million in 2013. The increase largely reflected $9 million from the addition of Protea Hotels and related transition costs, $7 million from net unfavorable foreign exchange rates, primarily from the devaluation of assets denominated in Venezuelan Bolivars, and $6 million of increased guarantee funding, partially offset by $8 million litigation settlements recognized in 2013, and a $5 million performance cure payment in 2013 for an International property.  
     28 

       Table of Contents  

   Gains and Other Income, Net 
  2015 Compared to 2014 
  Gains and other income, net increased by   $19 million   (  238 percent  ) to   $27 million   in   2015   compared to   $8 million   in   2014  . The increase primarily reflects the $41 million gain on the redemption of our preferred equity ownership interest, discussed in Footnote No.   14  ,    Fair Value of Financial Instruments  .  The increase was partially offset by an $11 million disposal loss for an International property and a $4 million expected disposal loss for a North American Limited-Service segment plot of land, both discussed in Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions  .   
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  Gains and other income, net decreased by $3 million (27 percent) to $8 million in 2014 compared to $11 million in 2013. This decrease in gains and other income, net reflected a gain of $8 million on the sale of a portion of our shares of a publicly traded company in the 2013 second quarter, partially offset by $4 million in net distribution from cost method investments (not allocated to any of our segments) in 2014. 
    Interest Expense  
  2015 Compared to 2014 
  Interest expense increased by   $52 million   (  45 percent  ) to   $167 million   in   2015   compared to   $115 million   in   2014  . The increase was due to net lower capitalized interest expense as a result of the completion of The Miami Beach EDITION in the 2014 fourth quarter and The New York (Madison Square Park) EDITION in the 2015 second quarter ($25 million), interest on the Series O Notes and Series P Notes that we issued in the 2015 third quarter and the Series N Notes that we issued in the 2014 fourth quarter ($17 million), and an unfavorable variance to the 2014 debt premium accretion true-up ($7 million). 
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  Interest expense decreased by $5 million (4 percent) to $115 million in 2014 compared to $120 million in 2013. This decrease was principally from $8 million in higher debt premium accretion which included a true-up, $2 million in lower interest on an exited lease obligation, $2 million decrease due to lower interest rates on our Marriott Rewards program, and a $2 million increase in capitalized interest primarily related to development of EDITION hotels in Miami Beach and New York, offset by completion of The London EDITION in the 2013 fourth quarter. This was partially offset by a net $8 million increase due to the issuance of higher net senior note borrowings.  
    Interest Income    
  2015 Compared to 2014 
  Interest income decreased by   $1 million   (  3 percent  ) to   $29 million   in   2015   compared to   $30 million   in   2014  . This decrease was primarily due to lower interest income on the preferred equity ownership interest that was redeemed in the 2015 second quarter ($5 million), partially offset by higher interest income on the $85 million mezzanine loan (net of a $15 million discount) we provided to an owner in conjunction with entering into a franchise agreement for an International property in the 2014 second quarter ($5 million).  
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  Interest income increased by $7 million (30 percent) to $30 million in 2014 compared to $23 million in 2013. The increase was primarily due to $6 million earned on the $85 million mezzanine loan (net of a $15 million discount) provided to an owner in conjunction with entering into a franchise agreement for an International property in the 2014 second quarter, and $2 million earned on the mandatorily redeemable preferred equity ownership interest acquired in the 2013 second quarter. See Footnote No.   13  ,    Notes Receivable    for more information on the mezzanine loan. 
    Equity in Earnings (Losses)  
  2015 Compared to 2014 
  Equity in earnings of   $16 million   in   2015   increased by   $10 million   from equity in earnings of   $6 million   in   2014  . The increase reflects a $22 million year-over-year impact from the reversal in 2015 of an $11 million litigation reserve that was recorded in 2014 and associated with an equity investment and a $5 million benefit recorded in 2015 following an adjustment to an International investee s liabilities. The increase was partially offset by a $6 million impairment charge relating to an  
     29 

     Table of Contents  

   International joint venture and an unfavorable variance to a $9 million benefit recorded in 2014 for two of our International investments, following the reversal of their liabilities associated with a tax law change in a country in which they operate.  
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  Equity in earnings of $6 million in 2014 improved by $11 million from equity in losses of $5 million in 2013. The increase was driven by a $9 million reversal of deferred tax liabilities associated with a tax law change in a country in which two of our International joint ventures operate, $9 million in higher earnings from three of our International and one of our North American Full-Service joint ventures, and a favorable variance from a $4 million impairment charge in the 2013 second quarter associated with a corporate investment (not allocated to any of our segments) that we determined was fully impaired because we do not expect to recover the investment. This was partially offset by an $11 million litigation reserve associated with another equity investment discussed above (not allocated to any of our segments). 
    Provision for Income Tax    
  2015 Compared to 2014  
  Our tax provision increased by   $61 million   (  18 percent  ) to   $396 million   in   2015   from   $335 million   in   2014  . The increase was primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings and unfavorable comparisons to the 2014 resolution of a U.S. federal tax issue relating to a guest marketing program, the 2014 release of an international valuation allowance, and the 2014 resolution of an international financing activity tax issue. The increase was partially offset by a favorable IRS settlement relating to share-based compensation ($12 million), a tax benefit from an International property disposition ($7 million), and a favorable comparison to the 2014 tax on unrealized foreign exchange gains that were taxed within a foreign jurisdiction ($5 million). 
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  Our tax provision increased by $64 million (24 percent) to $335 million in 2014 from $271 million in 2013. The increase was primarily due to higher pre-tax earnings, unrealized foreign exchange gains that were taxed within a foreign jurisdiction, and non-recurring favorable foreign true-ups in 2013. The increase was partially offset by the favorable resolution of a U.S. federal tax issue relating to a guest marketing program ($21 million), the release of an international valuation allowance ($7 million), and the resolution of an international financing activity tax issue ($5 million). 
    Adjusted Earnings Before Interest Expense, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ( Adjusted EBITDA ) 
  Earnings Before Interest Expense, Taxes, Depreciation and Amortization ( EBITDA ), a financial measure not required by, or presented in accordance with, U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ), reflects net income excluding the impact of interest expense, provision for income taxes, and depreciation and amortization. Our non-GAAP measure of Adjusted EBITDA further adjusts EBITDA to exclude (1) the pre-tax EDITION impairment charges of $12 million in 2015 and $25 million in 2014, which we recorded in the  Depreciation, amortization, and other  caption of our Income Statements following an evaluation of our EDITION hotels and residences for recovery; (2) the $15 million pre-tax loss on dispositions of real estate, which we recorded in the  Gains and other income, net  caption of our Income Statements in 2015; (3) the $41 million pre-tax gain triggered by a mandatory redemption feature of a preferred equity investment in 2015; and (4) share-based compensation expense for all periods presented.  
  We believe that Adjusted EBITDA is a meaningful indicator of our operating performance because it permits period-over-period comparisons of our ongoing core operations before the excluded items and facilitates our comparison of results before these items with results from other lodging companies, and because it excludes certain items that can vary widely across different industries or among companies within the lodging industry. For example, interest expense can be dependent on a company s capital structure, debt levels, and credit ratings, and accordingly interest expense s impact on earnings varies significantly among companies. Similarly, tax positions will vary among companies as a result of their differing abilities to take advantage of tax benefits and the tax policies of the jurisdictions in which they operate. As a result, effective tax rates and provision for income taxes can vary considerably among companies. Our Adjusted EBITDA also excludes depreciation and amortization expense which we report under  Depreciation, amortization, and other,  as well as depreciation included under  Reimbursed costs  in our Income Statements, because companies utilize productive assets of different ages and use different methods of both acquiring and depreciating productive assets. These differences can result in considerable variability in the relative costs of productive assets and the depreciation and amortization expense among companies. We also exclude share-based compensation expense to address the considerable variability among companies in recording compensation expense because companies use share-based payment awards differently, both in the type and quantity of awards granted. 
  Adjusted EBITDA has limitations and should not be considered in isolation or a substitute for performance measures calculated under GAAP. This non-GAAP measure excludes certain cash expenses that we are obligated to make. In addition,  
     30 

     Table of Contents  

   other companies in our industry may calculate Adjusted EBITDA differently than we do or may not calculate it at all, which limits the usefulness of Adjusted EBITDA as a comparative measure. 
  We present our   2015   and   2014   Adjusted EBITDA calculations that reflect the changes we describe above and reconcile this measure with Net Income in the following table: 

BUSINESS SEGMENTS 
  We are a diversified global lodging company with operations in three reportable business segments: North American Full-Service, North American Limited-Service, and International. See Footnote No.   16  ,    Business Segments  ,  to our Financial Statements for other information about each segment, including revenues and a reconciliation of segment profits to net income. 
    
     31 

       Table of Contents  

    Properties by Segment   
  At year-end   2015  , we operated, franchised, and licensed the following properties by segment and brand: 

(1)   
    Represents projects where we manage the related owners  association. We include residential properties once they possess a certificate of occupancy.  
               (2)   
    We present results for all AC Hotels by Marriott properties and five International Autograph Collection properties in the  Equity in earnings (losses)  caption of our Income Statements. 
               (3)   
    Timeshare properties licensed by MVW under the Marriott Vacation Club, The Ritz-Carlton Destination Club, The Ritz-Carlton Residences, and Grand Residences by Marriott brand names. Includes products that are in active sales as well as those sold out. MVW reports its property and room counts on a fiscal year basis for the MVW fiscal year ended    January 1, 2016   . 
       
     32 

       Table of Contents  

   The following discussion reflects all   three   of our reportable segments. We consider total segment revenues and total segment profits (as defined in Footnote No.   16  ,    Business Segments   ) to be meaningful indicators of our performance because they measure our growth in profitability and enable investors to compare the revenues and profits of our operations to our competitors. 
  2015 Compared to 2014 
  We added   300   properties (  51,547   rooms) and   51   properties (  6,328   rooms) exited our system in   2015  .  
   Total segment revenues increased by   $678 million   to   $14,218 million   in   2015  , a   five percent   increase from revenues of   $13,540 million   in   2014  , and total segment profits increased by   $111 million   to   $1,504 million   in   2015  , an   eight percent   increase from   $1,393 million   in   2014  . 
  The year-over-year increase in segment revenues of   $678 million   was a result of a   $572 million   increase in cost reimbursements revenue, a   $109 million   increase in franchise fees, a   $26 million   increase in base management fees, and a   $17 million   increase in incentive management fees, partially offset by a   $46 million   decrease in owned, leased, and other revenue. The year-over-year increase of   $111 million   in segment profits reflected a   $109 million   increase in franchise fees, a   $26 million   increase in base management fees, and a   $17 million   increase in incentive management fees, partially offset by a   $20 million   decrease in gains and other income, net, a   $12 million   decrease in equity in earnings, a   $6 million   increase in general, administrative, and other expenses, and a   $3 million   decrease in owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses. For more information on the variances, see the preceding sections beginning with  Revenues.  
  In   2015  , 68 percent of our managed properties paid incentive management fees to us versus 50 percent in   2014  . Managed properties that paid incentive management fees in   2015   represented 63 percent of properties in North America and 74 percent outside of North America, compared to 36 percent in North America and 73 percent outside of North America in   2014  . The percentage of North American properties that paid incentive management fees to us increased compared to 2014 due to a few large North American Limited-Service portfolios of properties that paid incentive management fees in 2015 but did not do so in 2014. In addition, in   2015  , 51 percent of our incentive fees came from properties outside of North America versus 56 percent in   2014  .  
  Compared to   2014  , worldwide comparable company-operated house profit margins in   2015   increased by   80   basis points and worldwide comparable company-operated house profit per available room ( HP-PAR ) increased by   7.5 percent   on a constant U.S. dollar basis, reflecting higher occupancy, rate increases, improved productivity, and solid cost controls. These same factors contributed to North American company-operated house profit margins increasing by   80   basis points compared to   2014  . HP-PAR at those same properties increased by   7.8 percent  . International company-operated house profit margins increased by   70   basis points, and HP-PAR at those properties increased by   6.9 percent   reflecting increased demand and higher RevPAR in most locations and improved productivity.  
  See  Statistics  below for detailed information on Systemwide RevPAR and Company-operated RevPAR by segment, region, and brand. 
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  We added 311 properties (46,050 rooms) and 52 properties (6,418 rooms) exited our system in 2014. These figures do not include residential units. During 2014, we also added two residential properties (30 units) and no residential properties or units exited our system.  
   Total segment revenues increased by $1,022 million to $13,540 million in 2014, an 8 percent increase from revenues of $12,518 million in 2013, and total segment profits increased by $196 million to $1,393 million in 2014 from $1,197 million in 2013. 
  The year-over-year increase in segment revenues of $1,022 million was a result of a $787 million increase in cost reimbursements revenue, an $80 million increase in franchise fees, a $58 million increase in owned, leased, and other revenue, a $51 million increase in base management fees, and a $46 million increase in incentive management fees. The year-over-year increase of $196 million in segment profits reflected an $80 million increase in franchise fees, a $51 million increase in base management fees, a $46 million increase in incentive management fees, $19 million of lower joint venture equity losses, a $11 million increase in owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses, and $4 million of lower depreciation, amortization, and other expense, partially offset by a $16 million increase in general, administrative, and other expenses. For more information on the variances, see the preceding sections beginning with  Revenues.  
  In 2014, 50 percent of our managed properties paid incentive management fees to us versus 38 percent in 2013. Managed properties that paid incentive management fees in 2014 represented 36 percent of properties in North America and 73 percent  
     33 

       Table of Contents  

   outside of North America, compared to 21 percent in North America and 70 percent outside of North America in 2013. In addition, in 2014, 56 percent of our incentive fees came from properties outside of North America versus 58 percent in 2013. Further, we earned $24 million in incentive management fees in 2014 from properties that did not earn any incentive management fees in 2013. 
  Compared to 2013, worldwide comparable company-operated house profit margins in 2014 increased by 120 basis points and HP-PAR increased by 9.7 percent on a constant U.S. dollar basis, reflecting higher occupancy, rate increases, improved productivity, and solid cost controls. These same factors contributed to North American company-operated house profit margins increasing by 150 basis points compared to 2013. HP-PAR at those same properties increased by 11.4 percent. International company-operated house profit margins increased by 70 basis points, and HP-PAR at those properties increased by 6.6 percent reflecting increased demand and higher RevPAR in most locations and improved productivity. Note that 2014 had three fewer days of activity when compared to 2013.  
  See  Statistics  below for detailed information on Systemwide RevPAR and Company-operated RevPAR by segment, region, and brand. 
    Development  
  In   2015  , we added   300   properties with   51,547   rooms across our brands, including 9,590 rooms from the acquisition of Delta Hotels and Resorts, and   51   properties (  6,328   rooms) left our system.   No   residential properties entered or left our system. Highlights of the year included:  
             
    Converting   39   properties (  7,301   rooms), or   14 percent   of our gross room additions for the year, to our brands; 
                
    Adding approximately   32 percent   of all the new rooms outside North America; and 
      We have over   270,000   hotel rooms in our development pipeline as of year-end   2015  , which includes hotel rooms under construction and under signed contracts, as well as nearly 27,000 hotel rooms approved for development but not yet under signed contracts. We expect the number of our open hotel rooms (gross) to increase approximately 8 percent in 2016. This development pipeline and expected hotel room growth information does not include rooms that will join our system through the Starwood Combination. 
  We believe that we have access to sufficient financial resources to finance our growth, as well as to support our ongoing operations and meet debt service and other cash requirements. Nonetheless, our ability to develop and update our brands and the ability of hotel developers to build or acquire new Marriott-branded properties, both of which are important parts of our growth plan, depend in part on capital access, availability and cost for other hotel developers and third-party owners. These growth plans are subject to numerous risks and uncertainties, many of which are outside of our control. See the  Forward-Looking Statements  and  Risks and Uncertainties  captions earlier in this report and the  Liquidity and Capital Resources  caption later in this report. 
    Statistics  
  The following tables show occupancy, average daily rate, and RevPAR for comparable properties, for each of the brands in our North American Full-Service and North American Limited-Service segments, and for our International properties by region. Systemwide statistics include data from our franchised properties, in addition to our owned, leased, and managed properties.  

34 

     Table of Contents  

* There are no company-operated comparable properties. 
  nm means not meaningful as the brand is predominantly franchised. 

35 

     Table of Contents  

(1)   
    Includes properties located outside of the United States and Canada for The Ritz-Carlton, Bulgari Hotels   Resorts, EDITION, Autograph Collection Hotels, Renaissance Hotels, Marriott Hotels, Courtyard, Residence Inn, and Fairfield Inn   Suites brands.  
               (2)   
    Includes properties worldwide for The Ritz-Carlton, Bulgari Hotels   Resorts, EDITION, Autograph Collection Hotels, Renaissance Hotels, Marriott Hotels, Gaylord Hotels, Courtyard, Residence Inn, SpringHill Suites, Fairfield Inn   Suites, and TownePlace Suites brands.  

36 

     Table of Contents  

* There are no company-operated comparable properties. 
  nm means not meaningful as the brand is predominantly franchised. 
            (1)   
    Statistics include only properties located in the United States. 

37 

     Table of Contents  

(1)   
    International includes properties located outside the United States and Canada, except for worldwide, which includes the United States. 
               (2)   
    Company-operated statistics include the Marriott Hotels, Renaissance Hotels, Autograph Collection Hotels, The Ritz-Carlton, Bulgari Hotels   Resorts, Courtyard, and Residence Inn brands. In addition to the foregoing brands, systemwide statistics also include the Fairfield Inn   Suites brand. 
               (3)   
    Company-operated and systemwide statistics include properties worldwide for the Marriott Hotels, Renaissance Hotels, Autograph Collection Hotels, Gaylord Hotels, The Ritz-Carlton, Bulgari Hotels   Resorts, Courtyard, Residence Inn, Fairfield Inn   Suites, TownePlace Suites, and SpringHill Suites brands. 
       North American Full-Service   includes The Ritz-Carlton, EDITION, JW Marriott, Autograph Collection Hotels, Renaissance Hotels, Marriott Hotels, Delta Hotels and Resorts, and Gaylord Hotels located in the United States and Canada. 

2015   Compared to   2014    
  In   2015  , across our North American Full-Service segment we added   57   properties (  15,345   rooms), including 37 properties (9,590 rooms) from the Delta Hotels and Resorts acquisition, and   five   properties (  1,398   rooms) left our system. 
  For the twelve months ended December 31,   2015  , compared to the twelve months ended December 31,   2014  , RevPAR for comparable systemwide North American Full-Service properties increased by   4.6 percent   to   $136.95  , occupancy for these properties increased by   0.6   percentage points to   73.1 percent  , and average daily rates increased by   3.8 percent   to   $187.40  . 
  The   $37 million   increase in segment profits, compared to   2014  , was driven by   $44 million   of higher base management and franchise fees and   $10 million   of higher incentive management fees, partially offset by   $6 million   of lower owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses,   $4 million   of higher general, administrative, and other expenses,   $4 million   of lower gains and other income, net, and   $3 million   of higher depreciation, amortization, and other expense.  
  Base management and franchise fees were higher due to stronger RevPAR driven by rate and unit growth, partially offset by $5 million of contract modifications and terminations. Increased incentive management fees were primarily driven by higher net house profits at managed hotels. 
     38 

     Table of Contents  

   Lower owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses primarily reflected $8 million of weaker performance at a North American Full-Service property under renovation. 
  General, administrative, and other expenses were higher due to $5 million from the Delta Hotels and Resorts acquisition and $2 million in higher reserves for guarantee funding, partially offset by $3 million of other property expenses incurred in 2014. 
  Cost reimbursements revenue and expenses for our North American Full-Service segment properties totaled   $7,911 million   in   2015  , compared to   $7,465 million   in   2014  . 
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  In 2014, across our North American Full-Service segment we added 23 properties (5,093 rooms) and no properties (zero rooms) left our system. 
  For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, RevPAR for comparable systemwide North American Full-Service properties increased by 6.4 percent to $132.44, occupancy for these properties increased by 1.5 percentage points to 72.8 percent, and average daily rates increased by 4.1 percent to $182.00. 
  The $34 million increase in segment profits, compared to 2013, was driven by $30 million of higher base management and franchise fees, $17 million of higher incentive management fees, and $5 million of lower depreciation, amortization, and other expense, partially offset by $11 million of lower owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses, and $8 million of higher general, administrative, and other expenses. 
  Base management and franchise fees were higher due to stronger RevPAR as a result of increased demand and unit growth, partially offset by $7 million from terminated units. The increase in incentive management fees was primarily driven by higher net house profit at managed hotels, partially offset by $5 million in deferred fees recognized in 2013. 
  The decrease in depreciation, amortization, and other expense primarily reflected $11 million of accelerated amortization related to contract terminations in 2013, partially offset by $3 million of higher depreciation for a property that we acquired in the 2013 fourth quarter and $2 million in higher accelerated amortization related to contract terminations in 2014. 
  The decrease in owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses primarily reflected $7 million of lower termination fees, $6 million of lower branding fees, and $6 million of pre-opening costs, partially offset by $10 million in revenue, net of direct expenses, for a property we acquired in the 2013 fourth quarter. 
  General, administrative, and other expenses increased primarily due to a $4 million increase in guarantee funding and $3 million of other property expenses. 
  Cost reimbursements revenue and expenses for our North American Full-Service segment properties totaled $7,465 million in 2014, compared to $7,190 million in 2013. 
    North American Limited-Service   includes AC Hotels by Marriott, Courtyard, Residence Inn, SpringHill Suites, Fairfield Inn   Suites, and TownePlace Suites located in the United States and Canada. 

2015   Compared to   2014    
  In   2015  , across our North American Limited-Service segment we added   173   properties (  19,712   rooms) and   26   properties (  2,820   rooms) left our system. The majority of the properties that left our system were Fairfield Inn   Suites and Residence Inn properties.  
  For the twelve months ended December 31,   2015  , compared to the twelve months ended December 31,   2014  , RevPAR for comparable systemwide North American Limited-Service properties increased by   5.6 percent   to   $94.99  , occupancy for these properties increased by   0.5   percentage points to   74.4 percent  , and average daily rates increased by   4.9 percent   to   $127.65  . 
  The   $77 million   increase in segment profits, compared to   2014  , reflected   $73 million   of higher base management and franchise fees,   $13 million   of higher incentive management fees,   $2 million   of lower general, administrative, and other  
     39 

     Table of Contents  

   expenses, and   $1 million   of lower depreciation, amortization, and other expense, partially offset by   $5 million   of lower owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses,   $4 million   of lower gains and other income, net, and   $3 million   of lower equity in earnings. 
  Base management and franchise fees were higher due to unit growth and stronger room rates, including $19 million of higher franchise licensing and application fees, partially offset by a $5 million reduction in previously deferred fees and $3 million of contract terminations. Increased incentive management fees were primarily driven by a few large portfolios of managed hotels whose improved net house profits allowed them to reach their owners priority threshold and begin to record incentive fees. 
  Lower owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses primarily reflected $7 million of lower termination fees, partially offset by $3 million of higher net earnings at several leased properties. 
  Gains and other income, net were lower due to a $4 million expected disposal loss on a plot of land. See Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions    for more information. 
  Lower equity in earnings was driven by the redemption of our investment in an entity that owns two hotels. 
  Cost reimbursements revenue and expenses for our North American Limited-Service segment properties totaled   $2,366 million   in   2015  , compared to   $2,217 million   in   2014  . 
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  In 2014, across our North American Limited-Service segment we added 120 properties (13,928 rooms) and 32 properties (3,030 rooms) left our system. The majority of the properties that left our system were Fairfield Inn   Suites and Residence Inn properties.  
  For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, RevPAR for comparable systemwide North American Limited-Service properties increased by 7.5 percent to $89.11, occupancy for these properties increased by 2.3 percentage points to 74.0 percent, and average daily rates increased by 4.2 percent to $120.36. 
  The $95 million increase in segment profits, compared to 2013, primarily reflected $80 million of higher base management and franchise fees, $11 million of higher owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses, and $7 million of higher incentive management fees.  
  Higher base management and franchise fees were primarily driven by higher RevPAR for comparable properties and unit growth, and included $15 million of higher deferred management fees and $10 million of higher relicensing fees. Increased incentive management fees resulted from net house profit growth at managed hotels. 
  The increase in owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses, primarily reflected $5 million of higher net earnings at several leased properties and $4 million of higher termination fees. 
  Cost reimbursements revenue and expenses for our North American Limited-Service segment properties totaled $2,217 million in 2014, compared to $1,939 million in 2013. 
    International   includes properties, regardless of brand, that are located outside the United States and Canada. 

2015   Compared to   2014    
  In   2015  , across our International regions we added   70   properties (  16,490   rooms) and   20   properties (  2,110   rooms) left our system. 
  For the twelve months ended December 31,   2015  , compared to the twelve months ended December 31,   2014  , RevPAR for comparable systemwide international properties increased by   5.1 percent   to   $124.13  , occupancy for these properties increased by   2.1   percentage points to   72.5 percent  , and average daily rates increased by   2.1 percent   to   $171.20  . See  Business and Overview  for a discussion of trends in the various International regions. 
     40 

     Table of Contents  

   The   $3 million   decrease in segment profits in 2015, compared to   2014  , consisted of   $12 million   of lower gains and other income, net,   $9 million   of lower equity in earnings,   $6 million   of lower incentive management fees, and   $4 million   of higher general, administrative, and other expenses, partially offset by   $18 million   of higher base management and franchise fees,   $8 million   of higher owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses, and   $2 million   of lower depreciation, amortization, and other expense. 
   Base management and franchise fees increased due to stronger RevPAR, driven by both occupancy and rate, and unit growth, partially offset by the impact of $16 million in unfavorable foreign exchange rates. Lower incentive management fees reflected $15 million in unfavorable foreign exchange rates, partially offset by higher net house profit at managed hotels and unit growth.  
  Higher owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses largely reflected favorable operating results at several of our properties, including $4 million of lower lease payments for properties that moved to managed, franchised, or left our system, and $7 million of increased termination fees, partially offset by $4 million in lower branding fees, and $2 million from a property that converted to managed. 
  Lower depreciation, amortization, and other expense was driven by amortization true-ups and lower depreciation from an International property sold in 2015, partially offset by $5 million of higher depreciation at several of our leased properties. 
  General, administrative, and other expenses increased primarily due to higher costs for branding and service initiatives to grow our brands globally. 
  Lower gains and other income, net primarily reflected an $11 million loss on the sale of an International property discussed in Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions  .  
  Lower equity in earnings reflected an unfavorable variance to a $9 million benefit recorded in 2014 for two of our International investments, following the reversal of their liabilities associated with a tax law change in a country in which they operate, and a $6 million impairment charge relating to an International joint venture, partially offset by a $5 million benefit recorded in 2015 following an adjustment to an International investee s liabilities. 
  Cost reimbursements revenue and expenses for our International properties totaled   $1,282 million   in   2015  , compared to   $1,305 million   in 2014. 
  2014 Compared to 2013 
  In 2014, across our International regions we added 170 properties (26,737 rooms) and 16 properties (3,130 rooms) left our system. 
  For the twelve months ended December 31, 2014, compared to the twelve months ended December 31, 2013, RevPAR for comparable systemwide international properties increased by 5.1 percent to $133.37, occupancy for these properties increased by 2.0 percentage points to 71.9 percent, and average daily rates increased by 2.1 percent to $185.39. See  Business and Overview  for a discussion of results in the various International regions. 
  The $67 million increase in segment profits in 2014, compared to 2013, primarily consisted of $22 million in higher incentive management fees, $21 million of higher base management and franchise fees, $17 million of higher equity in earnings, and $11 million of higher owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses, partially offset by $6 million higher general, administrative, and other expenses.  
     The increase in base management and franchise fees was driven by unit growth and higher RevPAR, partially offset by the impact of $3 million in unfavorable foreign exchange rates and $4 million from terminated units. Increased incentive management fees were primarily driven by higher net house profit at managed hotels and unit growth, partially offset by the impact of $4 million in unfavorable foreign exchange rates. 
  The increase of equity in earnings was driven by a $9 million reversal of deferred tax liabilities associated with a tax law change in a country in which two of our International joint ventures operate and $7 million in increased earnings at three of our joint ventures. 
  The increase in owned, leased, and other revenue, net of direct expenses largely reflected $10 million from Protea Hotels programs and leases acquired in the 2014 second quarter, $5 million in higher costs in 2013 related to three leases we terminated, $5 million of pre-opening costs in 2013, $4 million from new units, and $4 million of favorable operating profits, partially offset by an unfavorable variance of $12 million in termination fees recognized in 2013, and $6 million in earnings from properties that converted to managed or franchised. 
     41 

     Table of Contents  

   The increase in general, administrative, and other expenses was primarily due to $5 million related to the Protea Hotels acquisition and $5 million in higher compensation, partially offset by a $5 million performance cure payment for one property in 2013.  
  Cost reimbursements revenue and expenses for our International properties totaled $1,305 million in 2014, compared to $1,071 million in 2013. 
    SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
  Under our Stock and Cash Incentive Plan, we award: (1) stock options to purchase our common stock; (2) stock appreciation rights ( SARs ) for our common stock; (3) restricted stock units ( RSUs ) of our common stock; and (4) deferred stock units. We also issue performance-based RSUs ( PSUs ) to named executive officers and some of their direct reports under the Stock and Cash Incentive Plan.  
  During   2015  , we granted   1.3 million   RSUs,   0.1 million   PSUs, and   0.3 million   SARs. See Footnote No.   5  ,    Share-Based Compensation  ,  for more information. 
  NEW ACCOUNTING STANDARDS 
  See Footnote No.   2      Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  ,  to our Financial Statements for information on our anticipated adoption of recently issued accounting standards.  
    LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
  Cash Requirements and Our Credit Facilities 
  Our multicurrency revolving credit agreement (the  Credit Facility )   provides for     $2,000 million     of aggregate effective borrowings to support general corporate needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases, letters of credit, and acquisitions. The availability of the Credit Facility also supports our commercial paper program. In addition, we may use borrowings under the Credit Facility, or commercial paper supported by the Credit Facility, to finance all or part of the cash component of the consideration to Starwood shareholders in connection with the Starwood Combination and certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the combination. Borrowings under the Credit Facility generally bear interest at LIBOR (the London Interbank Offered Rate) plus a spread, based on our public debt rating.   We also pay quarterly fees on the Credit Facility at a rate based on our public debt rating. The term of the Credit Facility   expires on July 18, 2018  .  
  The Credit Facility contains certain covenants, including a single financial covenant that limits our maximum leverage (consisting of the ratio of Adjusted Total Debt to Consolidated EBITDA, each as defined in the Credit Facility) to not more than 4 to 1. Our outstanding public debt does not contain a corresponding financial covenant or a requirement that we maintain certain financial ratios. We currently satisfy the covenants in our Credit Facility and public debt instruments, including the leverage covenant under the Credit Facility, and do not expect that the covenants will restrict our ability to meet our anticipated borrowing and guarantee levels or increase those levels should we decide to do so in the future. 
  We believe the Credit Facility and our access to capital markets, together with cash we expect to generate from operations, remain adequate to meet our short-term and long-term liquidity requirements, finance our long-term growth plans, meet debt service, and fulfill other cash requirements. 
  We issue commercial paper in the United States. We do not have purchase commitments from buyers for our commercial paper; therefore, our ability to issue commercial paper is subject to market demand. We classify any outstanding commercial paper and Credit Facility borrowings as long-term based on our ability and intent to refinance them on a long-term basis. We reserve unused capacity under our Credit Facility to repay outstanding commercial paper borrowings in the event that the commercial paper market is not available to us for any reason when outstanding borrowings mature. We do not expect that fluctuations in the demand for commercial paper will affect our liquidity, given our borrowing capacity under the Credit Facility. 
  At year-end   2015  , our available borrowing capacity amounted to   $1,158 million   and reflected borrowing capacity of   $1,062 million   under our Credit Facility and our cash balance of   $96 million  . We calculated that borrowing capacity by taking   $2,000 million   of effective aggregate bank commitments under our Credit Facility and subtracting   $938 million   of outstanding commercial paper (there being   no   outstanding letters of credit under our Credit Facility).  
  We monitor the status of the capital markets and regularly evaluate the effect that changes in capital market conditions may have on our ability to execute our announced growth plans. We expect to continue meeting part of our financing and liquidity needs primarily through commercial paper borrowings, issuances of senior notes, and access to long-term committed  
     42 

     Table of Contents  

   credit facilities. If conditions in the lodging industry deteriorate, or if disruptions in the capital markets take place as they did in the immediate aftermath of both the 2008 worldwide financial crisis and the events of September 11, 2001, we may be unable to place some or all of our commercial paper on a temporary or extended basis and may have to rely more on borrowings under the Credit Facility, which we believe will be adequate to fund our liquidity needs, including repayment of debt obligations, but which may or may not carry a higher cost than commercial paper. Since we continue to have ample flexibility under the Credit Facility s covenants, we expect that undrawn bank commitments under the Credit Facility will remain available to us even if business conditions were to deteriorate markedly. 
  Cash from Operations 
  Cash from operations and non-cash items for the last three fiscal years are as follows: 

(1)   
    Includes depreciation, amortization, impairments, share-based compensation, and deferred income taxes. 
     Our ratio of current assets to current liabilities was   0.4   to 1.0 at year-end   2015   and 0.5 to 1.0 at year-end   2014  . We minimize working capital through cash management, strict credit-granting policies, and aggressive collection efforts. We also have significant borrowing capacity under our Credit Facility should we need additional working capital. 
  Our ratios of earnings to fixed charges for the last five fiscal years, the calculations of which we detail in Exhibit 12 to this   2015   Annual Report on Form 10-K, are as follows: 

Spin-off Cash Tax Benefits 
  Tax matters that could affect our cash tax benefits related to the 2011 spin-off of our timeshare operations and timeshare development business were resolved in 2013. As we expected, the spin-off resulted in our realization through 2015 of approximately $480 million of cash tax benefits, relating to the value of the timeshare business. We realized $447 million of those benefits through 2014 and expect to realize approximately $33 million of cash tax benefits in 2015.  
  Investing Activities Cash Flows 
  Capital Expenditures and Other Investments.   We made capital expenditures of   $305 million   in   2015  ,   $411 million   in   2014  , and   $296 million   in   2013  . These included expenditures related to the development and construction of new hotels and acquisitions of hotel properties, improvements to existing properties, and systems initiatives. Capital expenditures in   2015   decreased by   $106 million   compared to   2014  , primarily related to the 2014 development of two EDITION hotels, partially offset by 2015 renovations at a North American Full-Service property and investments in our reservations system. Capital expenditures in   2014   increased by   $115 million   compared to   2013  , primarily related to developing two EDITION hotels and our 2014 acquisition of an International property, partially offset by the completion of The London EDITION in the 2013 fourth quarter. 
  We expect   2016   investment spending will total approximately   $450 million   to   $550 million  , including approximately   $100 million   for maintenance capital spending. Investment spending also includes other capital expenditures, loan advances, contract acquisition costs, acquisitions, and equity and other investments. See our Condensed Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for information on investment spending for   2015  . Our anticipated investment spending does not include additional investments we may make in connection with the Starwood Combination, which we expect will close in mid-2016, after customary conditions are satisfied, including shareholder approvals, required antitrust approvals, and the completion of Starwood s previously announced spin-off of its vacation ownership business, or another spin-off, split-off, analogous disposition, or sale of its vacation ownership business. See Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions  ,  for more information about the Starwood Combination.  
     43 

     Table of Contents  

   Over time, we have sold lodging properties, both completed and under development, subject to long-term management agreements. The ability of third-party purchasers to raise the debt and equity capital necessary to acquire such properties depends in part on the perceived risks inherent in the lodging industry and other constraints inherent in the capital markets as a whole. We monitor the status of the capital markets and regularly evaluate the potential impact of changes in capital market conditions on our business operations. We expect to continue making selective and opportunistic investments to add units to our lodging business, which may include loans and noncontrolling equity investments. 
  Fluctuations in the values of hotel real estate generally have little impact on our overall business results because: (1) we own less than one percent of hotels that we operate or franchise; (2) management and franchise fees are generally based upon hotel revenues and profits rather than current hotel property values; and (3) our management agreements generally do not terminate upon hotel sale or foreclosure. 
  Dispositions.   Property and asset sales generated   $673 million   cash proceeds in   2015   and $435 million in   2014  . See Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions  ,  for more information on completed dispositions and planned dispositions. 
  Loan Activity.   From time to time we make loans to owners of hotels that we operate or franchise. Loan collections, net of loan advances, amounted to   $26 million   in   2015   compared to net advances of $69 million in   2014  . At year-end   2015  , we had a $3 million senior loan (current) and $218 million of mezzanine and other loans ($215 million noncurrent and $3 million current) outstanding, compared with a $3 million senior loan (current) and $239 million of mezzanine and other loans ($215 million noncurrent and $24 million current) outstanding at year-end   2014  . In   2015  , our notes receivable balance for senior, mezzanine, and other loans decreased by   $21 million  , primarily reflecting $86 million of collections on MVW notes receivable issued to us in 2011 in conjunction with our Timeshare spin-off, partially offset by the issuance of the $58 million mezzanine loan (net of a $6 million discount) described in Footnote No.   13  ,    Notes Receivable  .   
  Equity and Cost Method Investments.   Cash outflows of   $7 million   in   2015  ,   $6 million   in   2014  , and   $16 million   in   2013   for equity and cost method investments primarily reflects our investments in a number of joint ventures. 
  Cash from Financing Activities 
  Debt.   Debt increased by   $336 million   in   2015  , to   $4,107 million   at year-end   2015   from   $3,771 million   at year-end   2014  , and reflected   $790 million   (  $800 million   face amount) in Series O and P Notes issuances, partially offset by $314 million from the redemption of Series G Notes and a   $134 million   decrease in commercial paper borrowings. See Footnote No.   10  ,    Long-Term Debt    for additional information on the debt issuances.  
  Our financial objectives include diversifying our financing sources, optimizing the mix and maturity of our long-term debt, and reducing our working capital. At year-end   2015  , our long-term debt had an average interest rate of 2.9 percent and an average maturity of approximately 4.6 years. The ratio of our fixed-rate long-term debt to our total long-term debt was 0.8 to 1.0 at year-end   2015  . 
  See the  Cash Requirements and Our Credit Facilities,  caption in this  Liquidity and Capital Resources  section for more information on our Credit Facility. 
  Share Repurchases.   We purchased   25.7 million   shares of our common stock in   2015   at an average price of $75.48 per share, 24.2 million shares in   2014   at an average price of $62.09 per share, and 20.0 million shares in   2013   at an average price of $41.46 per share. At year-end   2015  ,   14.4 million   shares remained available for repurchase under authorizations from our Board of Directors. On    February 11, 2016   , we announced that our Board of Directors increased, by   25 million   shares, the authorization to repurchase our common stock. We purchase shares in the open market and in privately negotiated transactions.  
  Dividends.   Our Board of Directors declared and paid the following quarterly cash dividends in 2015: (1) $0.20 per share declared on February 12, 2015 and paid March 27, 2015 to shareholders of record on February 27, 2015; (2) $0.25 per share declared on May 8, 2015 and paid June 26, 2015 to shareholders of record on May 22, 2015; (3) $0.25 per share declared on August 6, 2015 and paid September 25, 2015 to shareholders of record on August 20, 2015; and (4) $0.25 per share declared November 5 and paid December 28 to shareholders of record on November 19. Our Board of Directors declared a cash dividend of $0.25 per share on February 11, 2016, payable on March 31, 2016 to shareholders of record on February 25, 2016. 
     44 

     Table of Contents  

   Contractual Obligations and Off Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  Contractual Obligations  
  The following table summarizes our contractual obligations at year-end   2015  :      
   
            (1)   
    Includes principal as well as interest payments. 
       The preceding table does not reflect unrecognized tax benefits at year-end   2015   of   $24 million  . See Footnote No.   6  ,    Income Taxes    for additional information. 
  In addition to the purchase obligations noted in the preceding table, in the normal course of business we enter into purchase commitments to manage the daily operating needs of the hotels that we manage. Since we are reimbursed from the cash flows of the hotels, these obligations have minimal impact on our net income and cash flow. 
  Guarantee Commitments 
  The following table summarizes our guarantee commitments at year-end   2015  :    

  In conjunction with financing obtained for specific projects or properties owned by joint ventures in which we are a party, we may provide industry standard indemnifications to the lender for loss, liability or damage occurring as a result of our actions or the actions of the other joint venture owner. 
  Investment and Loan Commitments 
  We also had the following investment and loan commitments outstanding at year-end   2015  :                                                       

Amount of Expected Funding by Period 
      ($ in millions) 
    Total 
  Amounts 
  Committed 
      
    Less Than 
  1 Year 
      
    1-3 Years 
      
    3-5 Years 
      
    After 
  5 Years 
      Total investment and loan commitments 
    $ 
    85 

$ 
    38 

$ 
    47 

$ 

$ 

For further information on our investment and loan commitments, including the nature of the commitments and their expirations, see the  Commitments  caption in Footnote No.   7  ,    Commitments and Contingencies  .  
  Letters of Credit 
  At year-end   2015  , we also had   $82 million   of letters of credit outstanding (all outside the Credit Facility), the majority of which were for our self-insurance programs.     Surety bonds issued as of year-end   2015   totaled   $159 million  , the majority of which federal, state, and local governments requested in connection with our self-insurance programs. 
     45 

       Table of Contents  

   RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
  Equity Method Investments 
  We have equity method investments in entities that own properties for which we provide management and/or franchise services and receive fees. We also have equity method investments in entities that provide management and/or franchise services to hotels and receive fees. In addition, in some cases we provide loans, preferred equity, or guarantees to these entities. 
  Other Related Parties 
  We provide management services for and receive fees from properties owned by JWM Family Enterprises, L.P., which is beneficially owned and controlled by J.W. Marriott, Jr., Deborah Marriott Harrison, and other members of the Marriott family. 
  For more information, including the impact to our financial statements of transactions with these related parties, see Footnote No.   17  ,    Related Party Transactions  .  
    CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES AND ESTIMATES 
  Our preparation of financial statements in accordance with GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: (1) we must make assumptions that were uncertain at the time the estimate was made; and (2) changes in the estimate, or selection of a different estimate methodology could have a material effect on our consolidated results of operations or financial condition. 
  While we believe that our estimates, assumptions, and judgments are reasonable, they are based on information available at the time the estimate or assumption was made. Actual results may differ significantly. Additionally, changes in our assumptions, estimates or assessments as a result of unforeseen events or otherwise could have a material impact on our financial position or results of operations. 
  Management has discussed the development and selection of its critical accounting policies with the Audit Committee of the Board of Directors, and the Audit Committee has reviewed the disclosure presented below relating to them. 
  See Footnote No.   2  ,    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  ,  for further information on our critical accounting policies and estimates, which are as follows: 
  Rewards Programs  , including how members earn points, how we estimate the value of future redemption obligation, and how we recognize revenue for these programs; 
  Goodwill  , including how we evaluate the fair value of reporting units and when we record an impairment loss on goodwill; 
  Intangibles and Long-Lived Assets  , including how we evaluate the fair value of intangibles and long-lived assets and when we record impairment losses on intangibles and long-lived assets; 
  Investments  , including information on how we evaluate the fair value of investments and when we record impairment losses on investments; 
  Loan Loss Reserves,   including information on how we measure impairment on senior, mezzanine, and other loans of these types; and 
  Income Taxes  , including information on how we determine our current year amounts payable or refundable, as well as our estimate of deferred tax assets and liabilities. 
             Item 7A. 
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk.  
     We are exposed to market risk from changes in interest rates, stock prices, currency exchange rates, and debt prices. We manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, through development and application of credit granting policies and by entering into derivative arrangements. We do not foresee any significant changes in either our exposure to fluctuations in interest rates or currency rates or how we manage such exposure in the future. 
  We are exposed to interest rate risk on our floating-rate notes receivable and floating-rate debt. Changes in interest rates also impact the fair value of our fixed-rate notes receivable and the fair value of our fixed-rate long-term debt. 
     46 

     Table of Contents  

   We are also subject to risk from changes in debt prices from our investments in debt securities and fluctuations in stock price from our investment in a publicly traded company. Changes in the price of the underlying stock can impact the fair value of our investment. We account for our investments as available-for-sale securities under the guidance for accounting for certain investments in debt and equity securities. At year-end   2015  , our investments had a fair value of   $37 million  . 
  We use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-U.S. operations hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks associated with fluctuations in interest rates and currency exchange rates. As a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. See Footnote No.   2  ,    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  ,  for more information on derivative instruments. 
  The following table sets forth the scheduled maturities and the total fair value as of year-end   2015   for our financial instruments that are impacted by market risks: 

47 

       Table of Contents  

            Item 8. 
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data. 
     The following financial information is included on the pages indicated: 

Page 
       Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
     49 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     50 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
     51 

Consolidated Statements of Income  
     52 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
     53 

Consolidated Balance Sheets  
     54 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
     55 

Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  (Deficit) Equity  
     56 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
     57 
       Basis of Presentation  
     57 
       Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  
     58 
       Acquisitions and Dispositions  
     64 
       Earnings Per Share  
     66 
       Share-Based Compensation  
     66 
       Income Taxes  
     69 
       Commitments and Contingencies  
     71 
       Leases  
     74 
       Self-Insurance Reserve for Losses and Loss Adjustment Expenses  
     74 
       Long-Term Debt  
     75 
       Intangible Assets and Goodwill  
     76 
       Property and Equipment  
     77 
       Notes Receivable  
     77 
       Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
     79 
       Accumulated Other Comprehensive (Loss) Income  
     80 
       Business Segments  
     81 
       Related Party Transactions  
     82 
       Relationship with Major Customer  
     83 

48 

       Table of Contents  

   MANAGEMENT S REPORT ON 
  INTERNAL CONTROL OVER FINANCIAL REPORTING 
    
  Management of Marriott International, Inc. (the  Company ) is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting and for assessing the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting. The Company has designed its internal control over financial reporting to provide reasonable assurance on the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
    
  The Company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the Company s transactions and dispositions of the Company s assets; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of the consolidated financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of the Company s management and directors; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the Company s assets that could have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Because of inherent limitations in internal control over financial reporting, such controls may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of internal controls to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  In connection with the preparation of the Company s annual consolidated financial statements, management assessed the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  , based on criteria established in the Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework) (the  COSO criteria ). 
    
  Based on this assessment, management has concluded that, applying the COSO criteria, as of   December 31, 2015  , the Company s internal control over financial reporting was effective to provide reasonable assurance of the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
    
  Ernst   Young LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited the Company s consolidated financial statements included in this report, has issued an attestation report on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, a copy of which appears on the following page. 

49 

       Table of Contents  

   REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Marriott International, Inc. 
    
  We have audited Marriott International, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework) (the COSO criteria). Marriott International, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
    
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  In our opinion, Marriott International, Inc. maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  , based on the COSO criteria. 
    
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated balance sheets of Marriott International, Inc. as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  (deficit) equity and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended   December 31, 2015   of Marriott International, Inc. and our report dated   February 18, 2016   expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
    
               /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 

McLean, Virginia 
  February 18, 2016    
    
     50 

       Table of Contents  

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  The Board of Directors and Shareholders of Marriott International, Inc. 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Marriott International, Inc. as of   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  (deficit) equity and cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended   December 31, 2015  . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Marriott International, Inc. at   December 31, 2015   and   2014  , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three fiscal years in the period ended   December 31, 2015  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
    
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Marriott International, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2015  , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 Framework) and our report dated   February 18, 2016   expressed an unqualified opinion thereon. 
    
               /s/ Ernst   Young LLP 

McLean, Virginia 
  February 18, 2016    
    
     51 

     Table of Contents  

MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.  
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF INCOME 
  Fiscal Years   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  ($ in millions, except per share amounts) 

(1)   
    See Footnote No.   17  ,    Related Party Transactions  ,  to our Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of related party amounts. 
     See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     52 

       Table of Contents  

   MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.  
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  Fiscal Years   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  ($ in millions) 

See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
     53 

       Table of Contents  

   MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.  
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  Fiscal Years-Ended   2015   and   2014    
  ($ in millions) 

(1)   
    See Footnote No.   17  ,    Related Party Transactions  ,  to our Consolidated Financial Statements for disclosure of related party amounts. 
     See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     54 

       Table of Contents  

   MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.  
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  Fiscal Years   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  ($ in millions)        

  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
     55 

       Table of Contents  

   MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.  
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF SHAREHOLDERS  (DEFICIT) EQUITY 
  Fiscal Years   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013    
  (in millions) 

(1)   
    Our restated certificate of incorporation authorizes   800 million   shares of our common stock, with a par value of   $.01   per share and   10 million   shares of preferred stock, without par value. At year-end   2015  , we had   265.3 million   of these authorized shares of our common stock and   no   preferred stock outstanding. 
       
  See Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     56 

       Table of Contents  

   MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
    
    1  .      BASIS OF PRESENTATION    
  The consolidated financial statements present the results of operations, financial position, and cash flows of Marriott International, Inc. ( Marriott,  and   together with its consolidated subsidiaries, as  we,   us,  or  the Company   ).   In order to make this report easier to read, we also refer throughout to (i) our Consolidated Financial Statements as our  Financial Statements,  (ii) our Consolidated Statements of Income as our  Income Statements,  (iii) our Consolidated Balance Sheets as our  Balance Sheets,  (iv) our properties, brands, or markets in the United States ( U.S. ) and Canada as  North America  or  North American,  and (v) our properties, brands, or markets outside of the United States and Canada as  International.    In addition, references throughout to numbered  Footnotes  refer to the numbered Notes in these Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, unless otherwise noted. 
  Preparation of financial statements that conform with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities as of the date of the financial statements, the reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods, and the disclosures of contingent liabilities. Accordingly, ultimate results could differ from those estimates. 
  The accompanying Financial Statements reflect all normal and recurring adjustments necessary to present fairly our financial position at fiscal year-end   2015   and fiscal year-end   2014   and the results of our operations and cash flows for fiscal years   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  . We have eliminated all material intercompany transactions and balances between entities consolidated in these Financial Statements. In addition, in 2015, we recorded a cumulative $  25 million   adjustment to  Retained earnings  to correct immaterial errors attributable to excess tax benefits for share-based compensation that we allocated to foreign affiliates, which had previously resulted in immaterial overstatements in both the  Provision for income taxes  in our Income Statements and  Additional paid-in-capital  in our Balance Sheets for the years 2003-2014.  
  Fiscal Year 
  Beginning with our 2013 fiscal year, we changed our financial reporting cycle to a calendar year-end reporting cycle and an end-of-month quarterly reporting cycle. Accordingly, our 2013 fiscal year began on December 29, 2012 (the day after the end of the 2012 fiscal year) and ended on December 31, 2013.   Historically, our fiscal year was a 52-53 week fiscal year that ended on the Friday nearest to December 31.   As a result, our   2015   and   2014   fiscal years had   three   fewer days than our   2013   fiscal year.  
  The table below presents each completed fiscal year we refer to in this report, the date the fiscal year ended, and the number of days in that fiscal year, and unless otherwise specified, each reference to a particular year means the fiscal year ended on the date shown below: 

Beginning in 2014, our fiscal years are the same as the corresponding calendar year (each beginning on January 1 and ending on December 31, and containing   365   or   366   days). 
     57 

       Table of Contents  

   2  .      SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
  Revenue Recognition 
  Our revenues include: (1) base management and incentive management fees; (2) franchise fees (including licensing fees from MVW after the spin-off of   $59 million   for   2015  ,   $60 million   for   2014  , and   $61 million   for   2013  ); (3) revenues from lodging properties we own or lease; and (4) cost reimbursements. Management fees are typically composed of a base fee, which is a percentage of the revenues of hotels, and an incentive fee, which is generally based on hotel profitability. Franchise fees are typically composed of initial application fees and continuing royalties generated from our franchise programs, which permit the hotel owners and operators to use certain of our brand names. Cost reimbursements include direct and indirect costs that are reimbursed to us by properties that we manage, franchise, or license.  
  Base Management and Incentive Management Fees  : We recognize base management fees as revenue when we earn them under the contracts. In interim periods and at year-end, we recognize incentive management fees that would be due as if the contracts were to terminate at that date, exclusive of any termination fees payable or receivable by us. 
  Franchise Fee and License Fee Revenue  : We recognize franchise fees and license fees as revenue in each accounting period as we earn those fees from the franchisee or licensee under the contracts. 
  Owned and Leased Units  : We recognize room sales and revenues from other guest services for our owned and leased units when rooms are occupied and when we have rendered the services. 
  Cost Reimbursements  : We recognize cost reimbursements from managed, franchised, and licensed properties when we incur the related reimbursable costs. These costs primarily consist of payroll and related expenses at managed properties where we are the employer and also include certain operational and administrative costs as provided for in our contracts with the owners. As these costs have no added markup, the revenue and related expense have no impact on either our operating or net income.  
  Other Revenue  : Includes other third-party licensing fees, branding fees for third-party residential sales and credit card licensing, land rental income, and other revenue. We generally recognize other revenue as services are rendered and when collection is reasonably assured. Amounts received in advance are deferred as liabilities. 
  Real Estate Sales  
  We reduce gains on sales of real estate by our maximum exposure to loss if we have continuing involvement with the property and do not transfer substantially all of the risks and rewards of ownership. In sales transactions where we retain a management contract, the terms and conditions of the management contract are generally comparable to the terms and conditions of the management contracts obtained directly with third-party owners in competitive bid processes. 
  Rewards Programs 
  Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards are our frequent guest loyalty programs. Program members earn points based on the money they spend at our hotels, purchases of timeshare interval, fractional ownership, and residential products and, to a lesser degree, through participation in affiliated partners  programs, such as those offered by car rental and credit card companies. Members can redeem points, which we track on their behalf, for stays at most of our hotels, airline tickets, airline frequent flyer program miles, rental cars, and a variety of other awards. Points cannot be redeemed for cash. We provide Marriott Rewards and The Ritz-Carlton Rewards as marketing programs to participating properties, with the objective of operating the programs on a break-even basis to us. We collect amounts that we expect will, in the aggregate, equal the costs of point redemptions and program operating costs over time. 
  We defer revenue we receive from managed, franchised, and Marriott-owned/leased hotels and program partners. Our management and franchise agreements require that properties reimburse us currently for the costs of operating the rewards programs, including marketing, promotion, communication with, and performing member services for rewards program members. Due to the requirement that properties reimburse us for program operating costs as incurred, we recognize the related cost reimbursements revenues from properties for our rewards programs when we incur and expense such costs. We also recognize the component of revenue from program partners that corresponds to program maintenance services when we incur and expense such costs. When points are redeemed we recognize the amounts we previously deferred as revenue and the corresponding expense relating to the costs of the awards redeemed. 
  The recorded liability related to these programs totaled   $2,574 million   at year-end   2015   and   $2,334 million   at year-end   2014  . We estimate the reasonableness and the value of the future redemption obligations using statistical formulas that project timing of future point redemptions based on historical levels, including an estimate of the  breakage  for points that members  
     58 

       Table of Contents  

   will never redeem, and an estimate of the points that members will eventually redeem. A   ten percent   reduction in the estimate of  breakage  would have increased the estimated     year-end   2015   liability by     $164 million  . 
  Profit Sharing Plan  
  We contribute to a profit sharing plan for the benefit of employees meeting certain eligibility requirements who elect to participate in the plan. Participating employees specify the percentage of salary deferred. We recognized compensation costs from profit sharing of   $80 million   in   2015  ,   $76 million   in   2014  , and   $75 million   in   2013  . 
  Non-U.S. Operations 
  The U.S. dollar is the functional currency of our consolidated and unconsolidated entities operating in the United States. The functional currency of our consolidated and unconsolidated entities operating outside of the United States is generally the principal currency of the economic environment in which the entity primarily generates and expends cash. We translate the financial statements of consolidated entities whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar into U.S. dollars, and we do the same, as needed, for unconsolidated entities whose functional currency is not the U.S. dollar. We translate assets and liabilities at the exchange rate in effect as of the financial statement date, and translate income statement accounts using the weighted average exchange rate for the period. We include translation adjustments from currency exchange and the effect of exchange rate changes on intercompany transactions of a long-term investment nature as a separate component of shareholders  equity. We report gains and losses from currency exchange rate changes for intercompany receivables and payables that are not of a long-term investment nature, as well as gains and losses from non-U.S. currency transactions, currently in operating costs and expenses, and those amounted to losses of   $6 million   in   2015  ,   $16 million   in   2014  , and   $5 million   in   2013  .  
  Share-Based Compensation  
  We grant share-based compensation awards at exercise prices or strike prices that equal the market price of our common stock on the date of grant. For all share-based awards, we measure compensation costs for our share-based payment transactions at fair value on the grant date, and we recognize those costs in our Financial Statements over the vesting period during which the employee provides service ( the service period ) in exchange for the award. 
  On the grant date, we use a binomial lattice-based valuation model to estimate the fair value of each stock appreciation right and stock option granted. This valuation model uses a range of possible stock price outcomes over the term of the award, discounted back to a present value using a risk-free rate. Because of the limitations with closed-form valuation models, such as the Black-Scholes model, we have determined that this more flexible binomial model provides a better estimate of the fair value of our stock appreciation rights and stock options because it takes into account employee and non-employee director exercise behavior based on changes in the price of our stock and also allows us to use other dynamic assumptions. See Footnote No.   5  ,    Share-Based Compensation    for further information. 
  Income Taxes 
  We record the amounts of taxes payable or refundable for the current year, as well as deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events we have recognized in our Financial Statements or tax returns, using judgment in assessing future profitability and the likely future tax consequences of those events. We base our estimates of deferred tax assets and liabilities on current tax laws, rates and interpretations, and, in certain cases, business plans and other expectations about future outcomes. We develop our estimates of future profitability based on our historical data and experience, industry projections, micro and macro general economic condition projections, and our expectations. 
  Changes in existing tax laws and rates, their related interpretations, and the uncertainty generated by the current economic environment may affect the amounts of our deferred tax liabilities or the valuations of our deferred tax assets over time. Our accounting for deferred tax consequences represents management s best estimate of future events that can be appropriately reflected in the accounting estimates. 
  For tax positions we have taken or expect to take in a tax return, we apply a more likely than not threshold, under which we must conclude a tax position is more likely than not to be sustained, assuming that the position will be examined by the appropriate taxing authority that has full knowledge of all relevant information, in order to continue to recognize the benefit. In determining our provision for income taxes, we use judgment, reflecting our estimates and assumptions, in applying the more likely than not threshold. We recognize accrued interest and penalties for our unrecognized tax benefits as a component of tax expense. See Footnote No.   6  ,        Income Taxes  ,  for further information. 
     59 

       Table of Contents  

   Cash and Equivalents  
  We consider all highly liquid investments with an initial maturity of three months or less at date of purchase to be cash equivalents.  
  Accounts Receivable 
  Our accounts receivable primarily consist of amounts due from hotel owners with whom we have management and franchise agreements and include reimbursements of costs we incurred on behalf of managed and franchised properties. We generally collect these receivables within 30 days. We record an accounts receivable reserve when losses are probable, based on an assessment of historical collection activity and current business conditions. Our accounts receivable reserve was   $25 million   at year-end   2015   and   $33 million   at year-end   2014  . 
  Assets Held for Sale 
  We consider properties to be assets held for sale when (1) management commits to a plan to sell the property; (2) it is unlikely that the disposal plan will be significantly modified or discontinued; (3) the property is available for immediate sale in its present condition; (4) actions required to complete the sale of the property have been initiated; (5) sale of the property is probable and we expect the completed sale will occur within one year; and (6) the property is actively being marketed for sale at a price that is reasonable given our estimate of current market value. Upon designation of a property as an asset held for sale, we record the property s value at the lower of its carrying value or its estimated fair value, less estimated costs to sell, and we cease depreciation. See Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions    for additional information on planned dispositions. 
  Goodwill 
  We assess goodwill for potential impairment at the end of each fiscal year, or during the year if an event or other circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the net assets of the reporting unit. In evaluating goodwill for impairment, we may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not (that is, a likelihood of more than 50 percent) that the fair value of     a reporting unit is less than its carrying amount. Qualitative factors that we consider include, for example, macroeconomic and industry conditions, overall financial performance, and other relevant entity-specific events. If we bypass the qualitative assessment, or if we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, then we perform a two-step goodwill impairment test to identify potential goodwill impairment and measure the amount of goodwill impairment we will recognize, if any.  
  In the first step of the two-step goodwill impairment test ( Step 1 ), we compare the estimated fair value of the reporting unit with its carrying value. If the estimated fair value of the reporting unit exceeds its carrying amount, no further analysis is needed. If, however, the estimated fair value of the reporting unit is less than its carrying amount, we proceed to the second step and calculate the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill to determine whether any impairment is required. We calculate the implied fair value of the reporting unit goodwill by allocating the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to all of the unit s assets and liabilities as if the unit had been acquired in a business combination. If the carrying value of the reporting unit s goodwill exceeds the implied fair value of the goodwill, we recognize an impairment loss in the amount of that excess. In allocating the estimated fair value of the reporting unit to all of the assets and liabilities of the reporting unit, we use industry and market data, as well as knowledge of the industry and our past experience. 
  We calculate the estimated fair value of a reporting unit using the income approach. For the income approach, we use internally developed discounted cash flow models that include the following assumptions, among others: projections of revenues, expenses, and related cash flows based on assumed long-term growth rates and demand trends; expected future investments to grow new units; and estimated discount rates. We base these assumptions on our historical data and experience, third-party appraisals, industry projections, micro and macro general economic condition projections, and our expectations. 
  We have had   no   goodwill impairment charges for the last three fiscal years.    
  Intangibles and Long-Lived Assets 
  We assess indefinite-lived intangible assets for potential impairment and continued indefinite use at the end of each fiscal year, or during the year if an event or other circumstance indicates that we may not be able to recover the carrying amount of the asset. Similar to goodwill, we may first assess qualitative factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of the indefinite-lived intangible is less than its carrying amount. If the carrying value of the asset exceeds the implied fair value, we recognize an impairment loss in the amount of that excess. 
  We test definite-lived intangibles and long-lived asset groups for recoverability when changes in circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the carrying value; for example, when there are material adverse changes in projected  
     60 

       Table of Contents  

   revenues or expenses, significant under performance relative to historical or projected operating results, or significant negative industry or economic trends. We also test recoverability when management has committed to a plan to sell or otherwise dispose of an asset group and we expect to complete the plan within a year. We evaluate recoverability of an asset group by comparing its carrying value to the future net undiscounted cash flows that we expect the asset group will generate. If the comparison indicates that we will not be able to recover the carrying value of an asset group, we recognize an impairment loss for the amount by which the carrying value exceeds the estimated fair value. When we recognize an impairment loss for assets to be held and used, we depreciate the adjusted carrying amount of those assets over their remaining useful life. 
  We calculate the estimated fair value of an intangible asset or asset group using the income approach or the market approach. We utilize the same assumptions and methodology for the income approach that we describe in the  Goodwill  caption. For the market approach, we use internal analyses based primarily on market comparables and assumptions about market capitalization rates, growth rates, and inflation. 
  Investments  
  We may hold an equity interest in ventures established to develop or acquire and own hotel properties. These ventures are generally limited liability companies or limited partnerships. We account for investments in such entities using the cost method of accounting when we own a minimal investment and the equity method of accounting when we own more than a minimal investment. We account for investments in other ventures using the equity method of accounting when we exercise significant influence over the entities. If we do not exercise significant influence, we account for the investment using the cost method of accounting. We consolidate entities that we control. 
  Under the accounting guidance for the consolidation of variable interest entities, we analyze our variable interests, including equity investments, loans, and guarantees, to determine if an entity in which we have a variable interest is a variable interest entity. Our analysis includes both quantitative and qualitative reviews. We base our quantitative analysis on the forecasted cash flows of the entity, and our qualitative analysis on our review of the design of the entity, its organizational structure including decision-making ability, and relevant financial agreements. We also use our qualitative analysis to determine if we must consolidate a variable interest entity as its primary beneficiary. 
  We evaluate an investment for impairment when circumstances indicate that we may not be able to recover the carrying value. For example, when evaluating our ventures, we consider loan defaults, significant under-performance relative to historical or projected operating performance, or significant negative industry or economic trends. 
  We impair investments we account for using the equity and cost methods of accounting when we determine that there has been an  other-than-temporary  decline in the venture s estimated fair value compared to its carrying value. Additionally, a venture s commitment to a plan to sell some or all of its assets could cause us to evaluate the recoverability of the venture s individual long-lived assets and possibly the venture itself. 
  We calculate the estimated fair value of an investment using either a market approach or an income approach. We utilize the same assumptions and methodology for the income approach that we describe in the  Goodwill  caption. For the market approach, we use internal analyses based primarily on market comparables and assumptions about market capitalization rates, growth rates, and inflation. 
  For investments in securities classified as available-for-sale, we determine the cost basis of the securities sold using specific identification, meaning that we track our securities individually. 
  Fair Value Measurements 
  We have various financial instruments we must measure at fair value on a recurring basis, including certain marketable securities and derivatives. See Footnote No.   14  ,    Fair Value of Financial Instruments    for further information. We also apply the provisions of fair value measurement to various nonrecurring measurements for our financial and nonfinancial assets and liabilities. 
  Accounting standards define fair value as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date (an exit price). We measure our assets and liabilities using inputs from the following three levels of the fair value hierarchy: 
  Level 1 inputs are unadjusted quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities that we have the ability to access at the measurement date. 
  Level 2 inputs include quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active, inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the  
     61 

       Table of Contents  

   asset or liability (i.e., interest rates, yield curves, etc.), and inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means (market corroborated inputs). 
  Level 3 includes unobservable inputs that reflect our assumptions about what factors market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. We develop these inputs based on the best information available, including our own data. 
  Derivative Instruments 
  We record derivatives at fair value. The designation of a derivative instrument as a hedge and its ability to meet the hedge accounting criteria determine how we reflect the change in fair value of the derivative instrument in our Financial Statements. A derivative qualifies for hedge accounting if, at inception, we expect the derivative will be highly effective in offsetting the underlying hedged cash flows or fair value and we fulfill the hedge documentation standards at the time we enter into the derivative contract. We designate a hedge as a cash flow hedge, fair value hedge, or a net investment in non-U.S. operations hedge based on the exposure we are hedging. For the effective portion of qualifying cash flow hedges, we record changes in fair value in other comprehensive income ( OCI ). We release the derivative s gain or loss from OCI to match the timing of the underlying hedged items  effect on earnings. 
  We review the effectiveness of our hedging instruments quarterly, recognize current period hedge ineffectiveness immediately in earnings, and discontinue hedge accounting for any hedge that we no longer consider to be highly effective. We recognize changes in fair value for derivatives not designated as hedges or those not qualifying for hedge accounting in current period earnings. Upon termination of cash flow hedges, we release gains and losses from OCI based on the timing of the underlying cash flows or revenue recognized, unless the termination results from the failure of the intended transaction to occur in the expected time frame. Such untimely transactions require us to immediately recognize in earnings the gains and/or losses that we previously recorded in OCI. 
  Changes in interest rates, currency exchange rates, and equity securities expose us to market risk. We manage our exposure to these risks by monitoring available financing alternatives, as well as through development and application of credit granting policies. We also use derivative instruments, including cash flow hedges, net investment in non-U.S. operations hedges, fair value hedges, and other derivative instruments, as part of our overall strategy to manage our exposure to market risks. As a matter of policy, we only enter into transactions that we believe will be highly effective at offsetting the underlying risk, and we do not use derivatives for trading or speculative purposes. 
  Loan Loss Reserves  
  We may make senior, mezzanine, and other loans to owners of hotels that we operate or franchise, generally to facilitate the development of a hotel and sometimes to facilitate brand programs or initiatives. We expect the owners to repay the loans in accordance with the loan agreements, or earlier as the hotels mature and capital markets permit. We use metrics such as loan-to-value ratios and debt service coverage, and other information about collateral and from third party rating agencies to assess the credit quality of the loan receivable, both upon entering into the loan agreement and on an ongoing basis as applicable. 
  On a regular basis, we individually assess loans for impairment. We use internally generated cash flow projections to determine if we expect the loans to be repaid under the terms of the loan agreements. If we conclude that it is probable a borrower will not repay a loan in accordance with its terms, we consider the loan impaired and begin recognizing interest income on a cash basis. To measure impairment, we calculate the present value of expected future cash flows discounted at the loan s original effective interest rate or the estimated fair value of the collateral. If the present value or the estimated collateral is less than the carrying value of the loan receivable, we establish a specific impairment reserve for the difference. 
  If it is likely that a loan will not be collected based on financial or other business indicators, including our historical experience, our policy is to charge off the loan in the quarter in which we deem it uncollectible. 
  Guarantees  
  We measure and record our liability for the fair value of a guarantee on a nonrecurring basis, that is when we issue or modify a guarantee, using Level 3 internally developed inputs, as described above in this footnote under the heading    Fair Value Measurements  .  We base our calculation of the estimated fair value of a guarantee on the income approach or the market approach, depending on the type of guarantee. For the income approach, we use internally developed discounted cash flow and Monte Carlo simulation models that include the following assumptions, among others: projections of revenues and expenses and related cash flows based on assumed growth rates and demand trends; historical volatility of projected performance; the guaranteed obligations; and applicable discount rates. We base these assumptions on our historical data and experience, industry projections, micro and macro general economic condition projections, and our expectations. For the market approach,  
     62 

       Table of Contents  

   we use internal analyses based primarily on market comparable data and our assumptions about market capitalization rates, credit spreads, growth rates, and inflation. 
  The offsetting entry for the guarantee liability depends on the circumstances in which the guarantee was issued. Funding under the guarantee reduces the recorded liability. In most cases, when we do not forecast any funding, we amortize the liability into income on a straight-line basis over the remaining term of the guarantee. On a quarterly basis, we evaluate all material estimated liabilities based on the operating results and the terms of the guarantee. If we conclude that it is probable that we will be required to fund a greater amount than previously estimated, we record a loss except to the extent that the applicable contracts provide that the advance can be recovered as a loan. 
  Self-Insurance Programs  
  We self-insure for certain levels of property, liability, workers  compensation and employee medical coverage. We accrue estimated costs of these self-insurance programs at the present value of projected settlements for known and incurred but not reported claims. We use a discount rate of   2.0   percent to determine the present value of the projected settlements, which we consider to be reasonable given our history of settled claims, including payment patterns and the fixed nature of the individual settlements. 
  We are subject to a variety of assessments for our insurance activities, including those by state guaranty funds and workers  compensation second-injury funds. We record our liabilities for these assessments in the  Accrued expenses and other  caption of our Balance Sheets. These liabilities, which are not discounted, totaled   $5 million   at year-end   2015   and   $4 million   at year-end   2014  . We expect to pay the   $5 million   liability for assessments by the end of   2016  . 
  Legal Contingencies 
  We are subject to various legal proceedings and claims, the outcomes of which are uncertain. We record an accrual for legal contingencies when we determine that it is probable that we have incurred a liability and we can reasonably estimate the amount of the loss. In making such determinations we evaluate, among other things, the probability of an unfavorable outcome and, when we believe it probable that a liability has been incurred, our ability to make a reasonable estimate of the loss. We review these accruals each reporting period and make revisions based on changes in facts and circumstances. 
  Business Combinations 
  We allocate the purchase price of an acquisition to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. We recognize as goodwill the amount by which the purchase price of an acquired entity exceeds the net of the fair values assigned to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed. In determining the fair values of assets acquired and liabilities assumed, we use various recognized valuation methods including the income and market approaches. Further, we make assumptions within certain valuation techniques, including discount rates, royalty rates, and timing of future cash flows. We record the net assets and results of operations of an acquired entity in our Financial Statements from the acquisition date. We initially perform these valuations based upon preliminary estimates and assumptions by management or independent valuation specialists under our supervision, where appropriate, and make revisions as estimates and assumptions are finalized. We expense acquisition-related costs as incurred. 
  New Accounting Standards 
  Accounting Standards Update No. 2014-09 -  Revenue from Contracts with Customers  ( ASU No. 2014-09 ) 
  ASU No. 2014-09 supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Topic 605,   Revenue Recognition  , as well as most industry-specific guidance, and significantly enhances comparability of revenue recognition practices across entities and industries by providing a principles-based, comprehensive framework for addressing revenue recognition issues. In order for a provider of promised goods or services to recognize as revenue the consideration that it expects to receive in exchange for the promised goods or services, the provider should apply the following five steps: (1) identify the contract with a customer(s); (2) identify the performance obligations in the contract; (3) determine the transaction price; (4) allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract; and (5) recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies a performance obligation. ASU No. 2014-09 also specifies the accounting for some costs to obtain or fulfill a contract with a customer and provides enhanced disclosure requirements. The Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) has deferred ASU No. 2014-09 for one year, and with that deferral, the standard will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within that reporting period, which for us will be our 2018 first quarter. We are permitted to use either the retrospective or the modified retrospective method when adopting ASU No. 2014-09. We are still assessing the potential impact that ASU No. 2014-09 will have on our financial statements and disclosures, but we believe that there could be changes to the revenue recognition of real estate sales, franchise fees, and incentive management fees. 
     63 

       Table of Contents  

   Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-03 -  Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs  ( ASU No. 2015-03 ) 
  In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-03, which requires entities to present debt issuance costs in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the related debt liability rather than as an asset. We adopted the standard in the 2015 fourth quarter and retrospectively applied the standard to the 2014 Balance Sheet by reclassifying $  10 million   of debt issuance costs from  Other noncurrent assets  to  Long-term debt.  
  Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-17 -  Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes  ( ASU No. 2015-17 ) 
  In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU No. 2015-17, which requires entities with a classified balance sheet to present all deferred tax assets and liabilities as noncurrent. We adopted the standard in the 2015 fourth quarter and retrospectively applied the standard to the 2014 Balance Sheet, resulting in reclassifications of $  311   million of current deferred tax assets and $  22   million of current deferred tax liabilities to noncurrent deferred tax assets. 
    3  .       ACQUISITIONS AND DISPOSITIONS    
  2016 Planned Acquisition 
  On November 15, 2015, we entered into an Agreement and Plan of Merger (the  Merger Agreement ) to combine with Starwood Hotels   Resorts Worldwide, Inc. ( Starwood ). The Merger Agreement provides for the Company to combine with Starwood in a series of transactions after which Starwood will be an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of the Company. If these transactions are completed, shareholders of Starwood will receive   0.920   shares of our common stock, par value $  0.01   per share, and $  2.00   in cash, without interest, for each share of Starwood common stock, par value $0.01 per share, that they own immediately before these transactions. We expect that the combination will close in mid-2016, after customary conditions are satisfied, including shareholder approvals, required antitrust approvals, and the completion of Starwood s previously announced spin-off of its vacation ownership business, or another spin-off, split-off, analogous disposition, or sale of its vacation ownership business.  
  2015 Acquisitions 
  In the 2015 second quarter, we acquired the Delta Hotels and Resorts brand, management and franchise business, together with related intellectual property, from Delta Hotels Limited Partnership, a subsidiary of British Columbia Investment Management Corporation ( bcIMC ) for approximately   $134 million   (  C$170 million  ), plus   $2 million   (  C$2 million  ) of working capital, for a total purchase price of   $136 million   (  C$172 million  ) in cash. We finalized the purchase accounting during the 2015 third quarter and recognized approximately:   $127 million   (  C$161 million  ) in intangible assets consisting of contract assets of   $17 million   (  C$22 million  ), an indefinite-lived brand intangible of   $91 million   (  C$115 million  ), and goodwill of   $19 million   (  C$24 million  ); and   $9 million   (  C$11 million  ) of tangible assets consisting of property and equipment and other assets. As a result of the transaction, we added   37   open hotels and resorts with   9,590   rooms across Canada, including   27   properties under management agreements (  13   of which have new 30-year management agreements with bcIMC-affiliated entities) and   10   properties under franchise agreements, plus   five   hotels under development (including   one   under a new 30-year management agreement with a bcIMC-affiliated entity). 
  2015 Dispositions and Planned Dispositions as of Year-End 2015 
  We sold The Miami Beach EDITION during the 2015 first quarter, and we sold The New York (Madison Square Park) EDITION at the beginning of the 2015 second quarter. We received total cash proceeds of   $566 million   in 2015. In the 2015 first quarter, we recorded a   $6 million   impairment charge for The New York (Madison Square Park) EDITION in the  Depreciation, amortization, and other  caption of our Income Statements as our cost estimates exceeded our total fixed sales price. We did not allocate the charge to any of our segments. 
  In the 2015 first quarter, we sold our interest in an International property and received   $27 million   (   24 million  ) in cash. 
  In the 2015 third quarter, our equity method investment in an entity that owns two hotels was redeemed. We received $  42 million   in cash, which was our basis in the investment, and included the proceeds in the  other  caption of our Investing Activities section of our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  In the 2015 fourth quarter, we sold an International property and received   $62 million   in cash. We recorded a loss of   $11 million   in the  Gains and other income, net  caption of our Income Statements.  
  At year-end   2015  , we held   $78 million   of assets classified as  Assets held for sale  and   $3 million   of liabilities associated with those assets, which we recorded under  Accrued expenses and other  on our Balance Sheet for assets that we expect to  
     64 

     Table of Contents  

   sell by early 2016. We determined that the carrying values of those assets exceeded their fair values, which we estimated using a market approach and Level 3 inputs. Consequently, we recorded charges for the expected disposal loss, which represents the amount by which the carrying values, including any goodwill we must allocate, exceeds the fair values, less our anticipated cost to sell. We classified assets as held for sale and associated liabilities that relate to the following: 
             
    $47 million   in assets and   $1 million   in liabilities for a North American Limited-Service segment plot of land. During the 2015 second quarter, we determined that achieving certain milestones outlined in a signed purchase and sale agreement was likely, and we recorded a   $4 million   expected loss in the  Gains and other income, net  caption of our Income Statements.  
                
    $31 million   in assets and   $2 million   in liabilities for The Miami Beach EDITION residences (the  residences ). During the 2015 first quarter, we recorded a   $6 million   charge, which we did not allocate to any of our segments, following a review of comparable property values. We classified the residences charge in the  Depreciation, amortization, and other  caption of our Income Statements because it is part of a larger mixed-use project for which we had recorded similar charges in prior periods. During 2015, we sold   five   residences and received   $20 million   in cash. 
     2014 Acquisitions 
  In the 2014 second quarter, we acquired the Protea Hotel Group s brands and hotel management business ( Protea Hotels ) for   $195 million   (ZAR   2.059 billion  ) in cash. We finalized the purchase accounting during the 2015 second quarter, adjusting fair value amounts that we had provisionally recognized in the 2014 second quarter following refinements to our intangible valuation models. The 2015 second quarter adjustments included a decrease to our contract assets of   $40 million   and a decrease to our indefinite-lived brand intangible of   $12 million  , with a corresponding increase to goodwill. These adjustments, and the related contract asset amortization impacts, did not have a significant impact on our previously reported Financial Statements, and accordingly, we did not retrospectively adjust those Financial Statements. 
  In the 2014 fourth quarter, we acquired a property under construction in Brazil for   $31 million   (  R$74 million  ) in cash.  
  2014 Dispositions  
  In the 2014 first quarter, we sold The London EDITION to a third party, received approximately $  233   million in cash, and simultaneously entered into definitive agreements to sell The Miami Beach and The New York (Madison Square Park) EDITION hotels upon completion of construction to the same third party. The total sales price for the   three   EDITION hotels was approximately $  816   million in cash and assumed liabilities.     We retained long-term management agreements for each of the hotels. During 2014, we evaluated the   three   hotels for recovery and recorded a $  25   million net impairment charge, primarily attributable to The Miami Beach EDITION, in the  Depreciation, amortization, and other  caption of our Income Statements as our cost estimates exceeded our total fixed sales price. We did not allocate the charge to any of our segments. 
  At year-end 2014, we had $  233   million in assets related to The Miami Beach EDITION hotel and residences (the hotel representing $  157   million in property and equipment and $  17   million in current assets) classified in the  Assets held for sale  caption of the Balance Sheet and $  26   million in liabilities (the hotel representing $  14   million) classified in liabilities held for sale in the  Accrued expenses and other  caption of the Balance Sheet. We did not classify The New York (Madison Square Park) EDITION assets and liabilities as held for sale because the hotel was under construction and not yet available for immediate sale in its present condition. 
  In the 2014 fourth quarter, we sold a portion of The Miami Beach EDITION residences and received approximately $  100   million in cash.  
  In the 2014 fourth quarter, we sold for approximately $  42   million in cash a land parcel to a third-party that agreed to develop a property. We retained certain repurchase rights in the event the buyer breaches covenants. We reclassified the property to  Other  current assets and offset this amount with a liability for the cash received. 
  In the 2014 first quarter, we sold our right to acquire the landlord s interest in a leased real estate property and certain attached assets of the property, consisting of $  106   million (   77   million) in property and equipment and $  48   million (   35   million) in liabilities. We received $  62   million (   45   million) in cash and transferred $  45   million (   33   million) of related obligations. We continue to operate the property under a long-term management agreement. 
     65 

       Table of Contents  

   4  .      EARNINGS PER SHARE    
  The table below illustrates the reconciliation of the earnings and number of shares used in our calculations of basic and diluted earnings per share: 

We compute the effect of dilutive securities using the treasury stock method and average market prices during the period. We excluded the following antidilutive stock options and stock appreciation rights in our calculation of diluted earnings per share because their exercise prices were greater than the average market prices for the applicable periods:   0.2 million   for   2015  ,   zero   for   2014  , and   0.4 million   for   2013  . 
    5  .      SHARE-BASED COMPENSATION 
  Under our Stock and Cash Incentive Plan (the  Stock Plan ), we award: (1) stock options (our  Stock Option Program ) to purchase our Class A Common Stock ( common stock  (2) stock appreciation rights ( SARs ) for our common stock (our  SAR Program  (3) restricted stock units ( RSUs ) of our common stock; and (4) deferred stock units. We also issue performance-based RSUs ( PSUs ) to named executive officers and some of their direct reports under the Stock Plan. We grant awards at exercise prices or strike prices that equal the market price of our common stock on the date of grant. 
  During   2015  , we granted   1.3 million   RSUs,   0.1 million   PSUs, and   0.3 million   SARs. 
  We recorded share-based compensation expense for award grants of   $113 million   in   2015  ,   $109 million   in   2014  , and   $116 million   in   2013  . Deferred compensation costs for unvested awards totaled   $116 million   at year-end   2015   and   $114 million   at year-end   2014  . As of year-end   2015  , we expect to recognize these deferred compensation expenses over a weighted average period of   two   years. 
  We present the tax benefits and costs resulting from the exercise or vesting of share-based awards as financing cash flows. The exercise of share-based awards resulted in tax benefits of   $34 million   in   2015  ,   $92 million   in   2014  , and   $121 million   in   2013  . 
  We received cash from the exercise of stock options of   $6 million   in   2015  ,   $86 million   in   2014  , and   $78 million   in   2013  . 
  RSUs and PSUs 
  We issue RSUs under the Stock Plan to certain officers and key employees, and those units vest generally over   four   years in equal annual installments commencing one year after the grant date. We recognize compensation expense for RSUs over the service period equal to the fair market value of the stock units on the date of issuance. Upon vesting, RSUs convert to shares of our common stock which we distribute from treasury shares. In addition to being subject to pro-rata annual vesting conditioned on continued service consistent with the standard form of RSUs, PSUs are also subject to the satisfaction of certain performance conditions based on achievement of pre-established targets for EBITDA, RevPAR Index, room openings, and net administrative expense over, or at the end of, a   three  -year vesting period. The following information on RSUs includes PSUs.  
     66 

     Table of Contents  

   We had deferred compensation costs for RSUs of approximately   $112 million   at year-end   2015   and   $109 million   at year-end   2014  . The weighted average remaining term for RSU grants outstanding at year-end   2015   was   two   years. 
  The following table provides additional information on RSUs for the last three fiscal years: 

The following table presents the   2015   changes in our outstanding RSU grants and the associated weighted average grant-date fair values: 

(1)   
    Includes   0.1 million   PSUs granted to named executive officers. 
     SARs 
  We may grant SARs to officers and key employees ( Employee SARs ) at exercise prices or strike prices equal to the market price of our common stock on the grant date. Employee SARs expire   ten   years after the grant date and both vest and may be exercised in cumulative installments of one quarter at the end of each of the first   four   years following the grant date. We may grant SARs to directors ( Director SARs ) at exercise prices or strike prices equal to the market price of our common stock on the grant date. Director SARs generally expire   ten   years after the date of grant and vest upon grant; however, they are generally not exercisable until   one   year after grant. On exercise of SARs, holders receive the number of shares of our common stock equal to the number of SARs that are being exercised multiplied by the quotient of (a) the stock price on the date of exercise minus the exercise price, divided by (b) the stock price on the date of exercise. 
  We recognized compensation expense for Employee SARs and Director SARs of   $7 million   in   2015  ,   $8 million   in   2014  , and   $12 million   in   2013  . We had deferred compensation costs related to SARs of approximately   $3 million   in   2015   and   $3 million   in   2014  . Upon the exercise of SARs, we issue shares from treasury shares.  
  The following table presents the   2015   changes in our outstanding SARs and the associated weighted average exercise prices: 

67 

     Table of Contents  

   The following tables show the number of Employee SARs and Director SARs we granted in the last three fiscal years, the associated weighted average exercise prices, and the associated weighted average grant-date fair values: 

Outstanding SARs had total intrinsic values of   $232 million   at year-end   2015   and   $264 million   at year-end   2014  . Exercisable SARs had total intrinsic values of   $209 million   at year-end   2015   and   $197 million   at year-end   2014  . SARs exercised during   2015   had total intrinsic values of   $23 million   and SARs exercised in   2014   had total intrinsic values of   $33 million  .  
  We used the following assumptions to determine the fair value of the SARs and stock options we granted to employees and non-employee directors in   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  : 

In making these assumptions, we base expected volatility on the historical movement of the Company s stock price. We base risk-free rates on the corresponding U.S. Treasury spot rates for the expected duration at the date of grant, which we convert to a continuously compounded rate. The dividend yield assumption takes into consideration both historical levels and expectations of future dividend payout. The weighted average expected terms for SARs are an output of our valuation model which utilizes historical data in estimating the period of time that the SARs are expected to remain unexercised. We calculate the expected terms for SARs for separate groups of retirement eligible and non-retirement eligible employees and non-employee directors. Our valuation model also uses historical data to estimate exercise behaviors, which includes determining the likelihood that employees will exercise their SARs before expiration at a certain multiple of stock price to exercise price. In recent years, non-employee directors have generally exercised grants in their last year of exercisability.  
  Deferred Stock Units 
  We also issue deferred stock units to non-employee directors. These non-employee directors deferred stock units vest within   one   year and are   distributed upon election  . 
  The following table presents the share-based compensation expense, the number of deferred stock units we granted, the weighted average grant-date fair value, and the aggregate intrinsic value for the last three fiscal years for non-employee director deferred stock units:    

We had   261,000   outstanding non-employee deferred stock units at year-end   2015  , and   268,000   outstanding at year-end   2014  . The weighted average grant-date fair value of those outstanding deferred stock units was   $33   for   2015   and   $30   for   2014  . 
  Other Information 
  At year-end   2015  , we had   24 million   remaining shares authorized under the Stock Plan, including   6 million   shares under the Stock Option Program and the SAR Program. 
     68 

       Table of Contents  

   6  .      INCOME TAXES    
  The components of our earnings before income taxes for the last three fiscal years consisted of: 

Our provision for income taxes for the last three fiscal years consists of: 

Our current tax provision does not reflect the following benefits attributable to us for the vesting or exercise of employee share-based awards:   $34 million   in   2015  ,   $89 million   in   2014  , and   $66 million   in   2013  . The preceding table includes tax credits of   $4 million   in   2015  ,   $4 million   in   2014  , and   $3 million   in   2013  . We had tax applicable to other comprehensive income of   $2 million   in   2015  ,   $5 million   in   2014  , and   $2 million   in   2013  .  
  We have made no provision for U.S. income taxes or additional non-U.S. taxes on the cumulative unremitted earnings of non-U.S. subsidiaries (  $1,109 million   as of year-end   2015  ). We consider the earnings for substantially all non-U.S. subsidiaries to be indefinitely reinvested. These earnings could become subject to additional taxes if the non-U.S. subsidiaries dividend or loan those earnings to a U.S. affiliate or if we sell our interests in the non-U.S. subsidiaries. We cannot practically estimate the amount of additional taxes that might be payable on the unremitted earnings. 
  Unrecognized Tax Benefits 
  The following table reconciles our unrecognized tax benefit balance for each year from the beginning of   2013   to the end of   2015  : 
                     ($ in millions) 
    Amount 
      Unrecognized tax benefit at beginning of 2013 
    $ 
    29 
      
      Change attributable to tax positions taken during the current period 
    8 
      
      Decrease attributable to settlements with taxing authorities 
    (2 
    ) 
      Decrease attributable to lapse of statute of limitations 
    (1 
    ) 
      Unrecognized tax benefit at year-end 2013 
    34 
      
      Change attributable to tax positions taken during the current period 
    3 
      
      Decrease attributable to settlements with taxing authorities 
    (27 
    ) 
      Decrease attributable to lapse of statute of limitations 

Unrecognized tax benefit at year-end 2014 
    10 
      
      Change attributable to tax positions taken during the current period 
    15 
      
      Decrease attributable to settlements with taxing authorities 

Decrease attributable to lapse of statute of limitations 
    (1 
    ) 
      Unrecognized tax benefit at year-end 2015 
    $ 
    24 

These unrecognized tax benefits reflect the following year-over-year changes: (1) a   $14 million   increase in   2015  , largely attributable to a U.S. federal tax issue regarding transfer pricing; (2) a   $24 million   decrease in   2014  , largely attributable to the favorable settlements reached with taxing authorities on both federal and international positions taken in prior years; and (3) a  
     69 

       Table of Contents  

   $5 million   increase in   2013  , primarily due to a U.S. federal tax issue, offset by a settlement with international taxing authorities. 
  Our unrecognized tax benefit balances included   $15 million   at year-end   2015  ,   $7 million   at year-end   2014  , and   $12 million   at year-end   2013   of tax positions that, if recognized, would impact our effective tax rate. 
  We file income tax returns, including returns for our subsidiaries, in various jurisdictions around the world. The Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) has examined our federal income tax returns, and we have settled all issues for tax years through 2013. We participate in the IRS Compliance Assurance Program, which accelerates IRS examination of key transactions with the goal of resolving any issues before the taxpayer files its return. As a result, our 2014 tax year audit is complete, pending the resolution of one issue. Our 2015 tax year audit is currently ongoing. Various foreign, state, and local income tax returns are also under examination by the applicable taxing authorities. We believe it is reasonably possible that we will resolve a transfer pricing issue for 2014 and 2015 during the next   12   months for which we have an unrecognized tax balance of   $15 million  .  
  Deferred Income Taxes 
  Deferred income tax balances reflect the effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities and their tax bases, as well as from net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. We state those balances at the enacted tax rates we expect will be in effect when we actually pay or recover the taxes. Deferred income tax assets represent amounts available to reduce income taxes we will pay on taxable income in future years. We evaluate our ability to realize these future tax deductions and credits by assessing whether we expect to have sufficient future taxable income from all sources, including reversal of taxable temporary differences, forecasted operating earnings, and available tax planning strategies to utilize these future deductions and credits. We establish a valuation allowance when we no longer consider it more likely than not that a deferred tax asset will be realized. 
  We had the following total deferred tax assets and liabilities at year-end   2015   and year-end   2014  : 

The following table presents the tax effect of each type of temporary difference and carry-forward that gave rise to a significant portion of our deferred tax assets and liabilities as of year-end   2015   and year-end   2014  : 

At year-end   2015  , we had approximately   $34 million   of tax credits that expire through   2025   and   $77 million   of tax credits that do not expire. We recorded   $5 million   of net operating loss benefits in   2015   and   $10 million   in   2014  . At year-end   2015  , we had approximately   $961 million   of primarily state and foreign net operating losses, of which   $413 million   expire through   2035  . 
     70 

       Table of Contents  

   Reconciliation of U.S. Federal Statutory Income Tax Rate to Actual Income Tax Rate 
  The following table reconciles the U.S. statutory tax rate to our effective income tax rate for the last three fiscal years: 

We paid cash for income taxes, net of refunds of   $218 million   in   2015  ,   $172 million   in   2014  , and   $77 million   in   2013  . 
    7  .      COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
  Guarantees 
  We issue guarantees to certain lenders and hotel owners, chiefly to obtain long-term management contracts. The guarantees generally have a stated maximum funding amount and a term of   four   to   ten   years. The terms of guarantees to lenders generally require us to fund if cash flows from hotel operations are inadequate to cover annual debt service or to repay the loan at maturity. The terms of the guarantees to hotel owners generally require us to fund if the hotels do not attain specified levels of operating profit. Guarantee fundings to lenders and hotel owners are generally recoverable as loans repayable to us out of future hotel cash flows and/or proceeds from the sale of hotels. We also enter into project completion guarantees with certain lenders in conjunction with hotels that we or our joint venture partners are building. 
  We present the maximum potential amount of our future guarantee fundings and the carrying amount of our liability for guarantees for which we are the primary obligor at year-end   2015   in the following table: 

Our liability at year-end   2015   for guarantees for which we are the primary obligor is reflected in our Balance Sheets as   $4 million   of  Accrued expenses and other  and   $63 million   of  Other noncurrent liabilities.  
  Our guarantees listed in the preceding table include   $11 million   of debt service guarantees,   $42 million   of operating profit guarantees, and   $1 million   of other guarantees that will not be in effect until the underlying properties open and we begin to operate the properties or certain other events occur. 
  The table above does not include a  contingent purchase obligation,  which is not currently in effect, that we entered into in the 2014 first quarter to provide credit support to lenders for a construction loan. We entered into that agreement in conjunction with signing a management agreement for The Times Square EDITION hotel in New York City (currently projected to open in 2017), and the hotel s ownership group obtaining acquisition financing and entering into agreements concerning future construction financing for the mixed use project (which includes both the hotel and adjacent retail space). Under the agreement, we granted the lenders the right, upon an uncured event of default by the hotel owner under, and an acceleration of, the mortgage loan, to require us to purchase the hotel component of the property for   $315 million   during the first   two   years after opening. Because we would acquire the building upon exercise of the put option, we have not included the amount in the table above. The lenders may extend this period for up to   three   years to complete foreclosure if the loan has been accelerated and certain other conditions are met. We do not currently expect that the lenders will require us to purchase the hotel component. We have no ownership interest in this hotel. 
     71 

     Table of Contents  

   The preceding table also does not include the following guarantees: 
             
    $62 million   of guarantees for Senior Living Services lease obligations of   $46 million   (expiring in   2019  ) and lifecare bonds of   $16 million   (estimated to expire in   2019  ), for which we are secondarily liable. Sunrise Senior Living, Inc. ( Sunrise ) is the primary obligor on both the leases and   $3 million   of the lifecare bonds; HCP, Inc., as successor by merger to CNL Retirement Properties, Inc. ( CNL ), is the primary obligor on   $13 million   of the lifecare bonds. Before we sold the Senior Living Services business in   2003  , these were our guarantees of obligations of our then consolidated Senior Living Services subsidiaries. Sunrise and CNL have indemnified us for any fundings we may be called upon to make under these guarantees. Our liability for these guarantees had a carrying value of   $3 million   at year-end   2015  . In conjunction with our consent to the 2011 extension of certain lease obligations until   2018  , Sunrise provided us with   $1 million   of cash collateral and an   $85 million   letter of credit issued by Key Bank to secure our continued exposure under the lease guarantees during the extension term and certain other obligations of Sunrise. The letter of credit balance was   $55 million   at year-end   2015  , which decreased as a result of lease payments made and lifecare bonds redeemed. During the extension term, Sunrise agreed to make an annual payment to us from the cash flow of the continuing lease facilities, subject to a   $1 million   annual minimum. In the 2013 first quarter, Sunrise merged with Health Care REIT, Inc. ( HCN ), and Sunrise s management business was acquired by an entity formed by affiliates of Kohlberg Kravis Roberts   Co. LP, Beecken Petty O Keefe   Co., Coastwood Senior Housing Partners LLC, and HCN. In April of 2014, HCN and Revera Inc., a private provider of senior living services, acquired Sunrise s management business. 
                
    Lease obligations, for which we became secondarily liable when we acquired the Renaissance Hotel Group N.V. in   1997  , consisting of annual rent payments of approximately   $4 million   and total remaining rent payments through the initial term of approximately   $19 million  . The majority of these obligations expire by the end of   2020  . CTF Holdings Ltd. ( CTF ) had originally provided    35 million   in cash collateral in the event that we are required to fund under such guarantees, approximately   $3 million   (   2 million  ) of which remained at year-end   2015  . Our exposure for the remaining rent payments through the initial term will decline to the extent that CTF obtains releases from the landlords or these hotels exit our system. Since the time we assumed these guarantees, we have not funded any amounts, and we do not expect to fund any amounts under these guarantees in the future. 
                
    A guarantee relating to the timeshare business, which was outstanding at the time of the 2011 Timeshare spin-off and for which we became secondarily liable as part of the spin-off. The guarantee relates to a Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation ( MVW ) payment obligation, for which we had an exposure of   $5 million   (  7 million   Singapore Dollars) at year-end. MVW has indemnified us for this obligation, which we expect will expire in   2022  . We have not funded any amounts under this obligation, and do not expect to do so in the future. Our liability for this obligation had a carrying value of   $1 million   at year-end   2015  .  
                
    A guarantee for a lease, originally entered into in 2000, for which we became secondarily liable in 2012 as a result of our sale of the ExecuStay corporate housing business to Oakwood Worldwide ( Oakwood ). Oakwood has indemnified us for the obligations under this guarantee. Our total exposure at year-end   2015   for this guarantee was   $6 million   in future rent payments through the end of the lease in 2019. Our liability for this guarantee had a carrying value of   $1 million   at year-end   2015  . 
     In addition to the guarantees described in the preceding paragraphs, in conjunction with financing obtained for specific projects or properties owned by joint ventures in which we are a party, we may provide industry standard indemnifications to the lender for loss, liability, or damage occurring as a result of the actions of the other joint venture owner or our own actions. 
  Commitments 
  In addition to the guarantees we note in the preceding paragraphs, at year-end   2015  , we had the following commitments outstanding, which are not recorded on our Balance Sheets: 
             
    A commitment to invest up to   $7 million   of equity for a non-controlling interest in a partnership that plans to purchase North American full-service and limited-service properties, or purchase or develop hotel-anchored mixed-use real estate projects. We do not expect to fund this commitment, which expires in 2016.  
                
    A commitment to invest up to   $22 million   of equity for non-controlling interests in a partnership that plans to purchase or develop limited-service properties in Asia. We expect to fund   $3 million   of this commitment     in 2016. We do not expect to fund the remaining   $19 million   of this commitment prior to the end of the commitment period in 2016. 
                
    A commitment, with no expiration date, to invest up to   $11 million   in a joint venture for development of a new property. We do not expect to fund this commitment.  
        72 

     Table of Contents  

We have a right and under certain circumstances an obligation to acquire our joint venture partner s remaining interests in   two   joint ventures over the next   six years   at a price based on the performance of the ventures. In conjunction with this contingent obligation, we advanced   $20 million   (   15 million  ) in deposits,   $13 million   (   11 million  ) of which is remaining. The amounts on deposit are refundable to the extent we do not acquire our joint venture partner s remaining interests. 
                 
    A $  5 million   loan commitment that we extended to the operating tenant of a property to cover the cost of renovation shortfalls. We expect to fund this commitment in 2016. 
                
    Various commitments to purchase information technology hardware, software, accounting, finance, and maintenance services in the normal course of business totaling   $173 million  . We expect to purchase goods and services subject to these commitments as follows:   $71 million   in   2016  ,   $52 million   in   2017  ,   $47 million   in   2018  , and   $3 million   thereafter.  
                
    Several commitments aggregating   $29 million   with no expiration date and which we do not expect to fund. 
     Letters of Credit 
  At year-end   2015  , we had   $82 million   of letters of credit outstanding (all outside the Credit Facility, as defined in Footnote No.   10  ,    Long-Term Debt   ), the majority of which were for our self-insurance programs. Surety bonds issued as of year-end   2015  , totaled   $159 million  , the majority of which federal, state, and local governments requested in connection with our self-insurance programs. 
  Legal Proceedings 
  On January 19, 2010, several former Marriott employees (the  plaintiffs ) filed a putative class action complaint against us and the Stock Plan (the  defendants ), alleging that certain equity awards of deferred bonus stock granted to the plaintiffs and other current and former employees for fiscal years 1963 through 1989 are subject to vesting requirements under the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended ( ERISA ), that are in certain circumstances more rapid than those set forth in the awards. The action was brought in the United States District Court for the District of Maryland (Greenbelt Division), and Dennis Walter Bond Sr. and Michael P. Steigman were the remaining named plaintiffs. Class certification was denied, and on January 16, 2015, the court granted Marriott s motion for summary judgment and dismissed the case. Plaintiffs appealed to the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, and we cross-appealed on statute of limitation grounds. Oral arguments were held before the Fourth Circuit on October 28, 2015, and on January 29, 2016, the Fourth Circuit unanimously granted Marriott s motion for summary judgment on the grounds that the action was untimely and affirmed the judgment in Marriott s favor. 
  In March 2012, the Korea Fair Trade Commission ( KFTC ) obtained documents from   two   of our managed hotels in Seoul, Korea in connection with an investigation which we believe is focused on pricing of hotel services within the Seoul region. Since then, the KFTC has conducted additional fact-gathering at those   two   hotels and also has collected information from another Marriott managed hotel located in Seoul. We understand that the KFTC also has sought documents from numerous other hotels in Seoul and other parts of Korea that we do not operate, own, or franchise. We have not received a complaint or other legal process. We are cooperating with this investigation. 
  Between November 18, 2015 and December 18, 2015,   seven   lawsuits challenging the Starwood Combination were filed in the Circuit Court for Baltimore City, Maryland on behalf of purported shareholders of Starwood, naming various combinations of Starwood s directors, Starwood, Marriott, and others, as defendants. On February 4, 2016, the parties filed a stipulation and proposed order in which the plaintiffs in all actions agreed to the dismissal, without prejudice, of all counts against Marriott and Marriott s subsidiaries. On February 11, 2016, pursuant to the parties  stipulation, the Court issued an order dismissing, without prejudice, all claims and all counts against Marriott.   
     73 

       Table of Contents  

   8  .      LEASES    
  The following table presents our future obligations under operating leases as of year-end   2015  :   

  Most leases have initial terms of up to   20   years and contain   one   or more renewal options, generally for   five  - or   10  -year periods. These leases generally provide for minimum rentals plus additional rentals based on the operating performance of the leased property. The total minimum lease payments above includes   $186 million   of obligations of our consolidated subsidiaries that are non-recourse to us. 
  The following table details the composition of rent expense for operating leases for the last three years:   

    9  .      SELF-INSURANCE RESERVE FOR LOSSES AND LOSS ADJUSTMENT EXPENSES 
  The following table summarizes the activity in our self-insurance reserve for losses and loss adjustment expenses as of year-end   2015   and   2014  :    

  Our provision for incurred losses for the current year increased by   $15 million   over   2014  , primarily due to an increase in medical benefit costs and growth in business activity. We decreased our provision for incurred losses for prior years by   $11 million   in   2015   and by   $2 million   in   2014   as a result of changes in estimates from insured events from prior years due to changes in underwriting experience and frequency and severity trends.  
     74 

       Table of Contents  

    We provide detail on our long-term debt balances in the following table at year-end   2015   and   2014  :  

All of our long-term debt is recourse to us but unsecured. We paid cash for interest, net of amounts capitalized, of   $114 million   in   2015  ,   $79 million   in   2014  , and   $83 million   in   2013  . 
  In the 2015 third quarter, we issued   $800 million   aggregate principal amount of   2.875 percent   Series O Notes due 2021 (the  Series O Notes ) and   3.750 percent   Series P Notes due 2025 (the  Series P Notes  and together with the Series O Notes, the  Notes ). We received net proceeds of approximately   $790 million   from the offering of the Notes, after deducting the underwriting discount and expenses. We expect to use these proceeds for general corporate purposes, which may include working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, stock repurchases, or repayment of commercial paper or other borrowings as they become due. We will pay interest on the Series O Notes on March 1 and September 1 of each year, commencing on March 1, 2016, and we will pay interest on the Series P Notes on April 1 and October 1 of each year, commencing on April 1, 2016. 
  In the 2014 fourth quarter, we issued   $400 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.1 percent   Series N Notes due 2021 (the  Series N Notes ). We received net proceeds of approximately   $394 million   from the offering, after deducting the underwriting discount and expenses. We will pay interest on the Series N Notes on April 15 and October 15 of each year, commencing on April 15, 2015. 
  We issued the Notes under an indenture dated as of November 16, 1998 with The Bank of New York Mellon, as successor to JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A. (formerly known as The Chase Manhattan Bank), as trustee. We may redeem some or all of each series of the Notes prior to maturity under the terms provided in the applicable form of Note. 
  We are party to a multicurrency revolving credit agreement (the  Credit Facility ) that   provides for     $2,000 million     of aggregate effective borrowings to support general corporate needs, including working capital, capital expenditures, share repurchases, letters of credit, and acquisitions. The availability of the Credit Facility also supports our commercial paper program. In addition, we may use borrowings under the Credit Facility, or commercial paper supported by the Credit Facility, to finance all or part of the cash component of the consideration to Starwood shareholders in connection with the Starwood Combination and certain fees and expenses incurred in connection with the combination. Borrowings under the Credit Facility generally bear interest at LIBOR (the London Interbank Offered Rate) plus a spread, based on our public debt rating.   We also pay quarterly fees on the Credit Facility at a rate based on our public debt rating. While any outstanding commercial paper  
     75 

       Table of Contents  

   borrowings and/or borrowings under our Credit Facility generally have short-term maturities, we classify the outstanding borrowings as long-term based on our ability and intent to refinance the outstanding borrowings on a long-term basis. The Credit Facility   expires on July 18, 2018  .  
  The following table presents future principal payments for our debt as of year-end   2015  : 

11  .      INTANGIBLE ASSETS AND GOODWILL    
  The following table details the composition of our acquired intangible assets at year-end   2015   and   2014  :       

  We capitalize both direct and incremental costs that we incur to acquire management, franchise, and license agreements. We amortize these costs on a straight-line basis over the initial term of the agreements, ranging from   15   to   30   years. Our amortization expense totaled   $65 million   in   2015  ,   $64 million   in   2014  , and   $68 million   in   2013  . We estimate that our aggregate amortization expense for each of the next five fiscal years will be as follows:   $67 million   for   2016  ;   $67 million   for   2017  ;   $67 million   for   2018  ;   $67 million   for   2019  ; and   $67 million   for   2020  . 
  The following table details the carrying amount of our goodwill at year-end   2015   and   2014  : 

The table reflects goodwill added as a result of our acquisitions of Delta Hotels and Resorts in 2015 and Protea Hotels in 2014. See Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions    for more information. 
     76 

       Table of Contents  

   12  .      PROPERTY AND EQUIPMENT    
  The following table presents the composition of our property and equipment balances at year-end   2015   and   2014  : 

We record property and equipment at cost, including interest and real estate taxes we incur during development and construction. Interest we capitalized as a cost of property and equipment totaled   $9 million   in   2015  ,   $33 million   in   2014  , and   $31 million   in   2013  . We capitalize the cost of improvements that extend the useful life of property and equipment when we incur them. These capitalized costs may include structural costs, equipment, fixtures, floor, and wall coverings. We expense all repair and maintenance costs when we incur them. We compute depreciation using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets (  three   to   40   years), and we amortize leasehold improvements over the shorter of the asset life or lease term. Our gross depreciation expense totaled   $132 million   in   2015  ,   $135 million   in   2014  , and   $107 million   in   2013   (of which   $58 million   in   2015  ,   $51 million   in   2014  , and   $48 million   in   2013   we included in reimbursed costs). Fixed assets attributed to operations located outside the United States were   $229 million   in   2015   and   $291 million   in   2014  . 
  See Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions    for information on impairment charges we recorded in the  Depreciation, amortization, and other  and  Gains and other income, net  captions of our Income Statements. 
    13  .      NOTES RECEIVABLE 
  The following table presents the composition of our notes receivable balances (net of reserves and unamortized discounts) at year-end   2015   and   2014  : 

We classify notes receivable due within one year as current assets in the caption  Accounts and notes receivable, net  in our Balance Sheets. We did not have any past due notes receivable amounts at the end of either   2015   or   2014  . In 2015, we issued a   $58 million   mezzanine loan (net of a   $6 million   discount) to an owner in conjunction with entering into a franchise agreement for a North American Limited-Service property. In 2014, we provided an   $85 million   mezzanine loan (net of a   $15 million   discount) to an owner in conjunction with entering into a franchise agreement for an International property. The unamortized discounts for our notes receivable were   $31 million   at year-end   2015   and   $25 million   at year-end   2014  . 
    
     77 

     Table of Contents  

   The following table presents the expected future principal payments (net of reserves and unamortized discounts) as well as interest rates for our notes receivable as of year-end   2015  : 

Senior, Mezzanine, and Other Loans 
  Generally, all of the loans we make have similar characteristics in that they are loans to owners and operators of hotels and hospitality properties. We reflect interest income for  Senior, mezzanine, and other loans  in the  Interest income  caption in our Income Statements. At year-end   2015  , our recorded investment in impaired  Senior, mezzanine, and other loans  was   $72 million  . We had a   $55 million   notes receivable reserve representing an allowance for credit losses, leaving   $17 million   of our investment in impaired loans, for which we had no related allowance for credit losses. At year-end   2014  , our recorded investment in impaired  Senior, mezzanine, and other loans  was   $63 million  , and we had a   $50 million   notes receivable reserve representing an allowance for credit losses, leaving   $13 million   of our investment in impaired loans, for which we had no related allowance for credit losses. Our average investment in impaired  Senior, mezzanine, and other loans  totaled   $67 million   during   2015  ,   $81 million   during   2014  , and   $96 million   during   2013  . 
  The following table summarizes the activity for our  Senior, mezzanine, and other loans  notes receivable reserve for   2013  ,   2014  , and   2015  : 

78 

       Table of Contents  

   14  .      FAIR VALUE OF FINANCIAL INSTRUMENTS    
  We believe that the fair values of our current assets and current liabilities approximate their reported carrying amounts. We present the carrying values and the fair values of noncurrent financial assets and liabilities that qualify as financial instruments, determined under current guidance for disclosures on the fair value of financial instruments, in the following table: 

We estimate the fair value of our senior, mezzanine, and other loans, including the current portion, by discounting cash flows using risk-adjusted rates, both of which are Level 3 inputs.  
  We carry our marketable securities at fair value. Our marketable securities include debt securities of the U.S. Government, its sponsored agencies and other U.S. corporations invested for our self-insurance programs, as well as shares of publicly traded companies, which we value using directly observable Level 1 inputs. The carrying value of these marketable securities at year-end   2015   was   $37 million  . 
  In the 2015 second quarter, the sale of an entity that owns   three   hotels that we manage triggered the mandatory redemption feature of our preferred equity ownership interest in that entity. We received $  121 million   in cash and realized a gain of $  41 million   for the redemption, which we recorded in the  Gains and other income, net  caption of our Income Statements. At the date of redemption, it had an amortized cost of $  80 million  , including accrued interest. We continue to manage the hotels under long-term agreements. At year-end 2014, we accounted for this investment as a debt security and classified it as a current asset in our Balance Sheet. Based on qualitative and quantitative analyses, at year-end 2014, we concluded that the entity in which we invested was a variable interest entity because it was capitalized primarily with debt. We did not consolidate the entity because we did not have the power to direct the activities that most significantly impact the entity s economic performance.  
  We estimate the fair value of our other long-term debt, including the current portion and excluding leases, using expected future payments discounted at risk-adjusted rates, which are Level 3 inputs. We determine the fair value of our senior notes using quoted market prices, which are directly observable Level 1 inputs. As noted in Footnote No.   10  ,    Long-Term Debt  ,  even though our commercial paper borrowings generally have short-term maturities of   30 days   or less, we classify outstanding commercial paper borrowings as long-term based on our ability and intent to refinance them on a long-term basis. As we are a frequent issuer of commercial paper, we use pricing from recent transactions as Level 2 inputs in estimating fair value. At year-end   2015   and year-end   2014  , we determined that the carrying value of our commercial paper approximated its fair value due to the short maturity. Our other long-term liabilities largely consist of guarantees. As we note in the  Guarantees  caption of Footnote No.   2  ,    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  ,  we measure our liability for guarantees at fair value on a nonrecurring basis that is when we issue or modify a guarantee, using Level 3 internally developed inputs. At year-end   2015   and year-end   2014  , we determined that the carrying values of our guarantee liabilities approximated their fair values based on Level 3 inputs. 
  See the  Fair Value Measurements  caption of Footnote No.   2  ,    Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    for more information on the input levels we use in determining fair value.  
     79 

       Table of Contents  

   15  .      ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME    
  The following table details the accumulated other comprehensive (loss) income activity for   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  : 

(1)   
    We present the portions of other comprehensive (loss) income before reclassifications that relate to unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale securities net of deferred taxes of   $4 million   for   2015  ,   $3 million   for   2014  , and   $2 million   for   2013  . 
               (2)   
    Other comprehensive (loss) income before reclassifications for foreign currency translation adjustments includes gains on intra-entity foreign currency transactions that are of a long-term investment nature of   $48 million   for   2015   and   $28 million   for   2014   and a loss of   $20 million   for   2013  . 
     The following table details the effect on net income of amounts we reclassified out of accumulated other comprehensive loss for   2015  :  
                           ($ in millions) 
      
    Reclassification of Gains (Losses) from Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss Components 
      
    2015 
      
    Income Statement Line Affected 
      Foreign Currency Translation Adjustments 

Property disposition 
      
    $ 
    (3 
    ) 
      
    Gains and other income, net 

(3 
    ) 
      
    Income before income taxes 

Provision for income taxes 

$ 
    (3 
    ) 
      
    Net income 
      Derivative Instrument Adjustments  

Cash flow hedges 
      
    $ 
    10 

Base management and franchise fees 
      Net investment hedge - property disposition 
      
    3 

Gains and other income, net 
      Interest rate contracts 
      
    (5 
    ) 
      
    Interest expense 

8 

Income before income taxes 

2 

Provision for income taxes 

$ 
    10 

Net income 

80 

       Table of Contents  

   16  .      BUSINESS SEGMENTS    
  We are a diversified global lodging company. During the 2014 first quarter, we modified the information that our President and Chief Executive Officer, who is our  chief operating decision maker  ( CODM ), reviews to be consistent with our continent structure. This structure aligns our business around geographic regions and is designed to enable us to operate more efficiently and to accelerate our worldwide growth. As a result of modifying our reporting information, we revised our operating segments to eliminate our former Luxury segment, which we allocated between our existing North American Full-Service operating segment, and the following   four   new operating segments: Asia Pacific, Caribbean and Latin America, Europe, and Middle East and Africa. 
  Although our North American Full-Service and North American Limited-Service segments meet the applicable accounting criteria to be reportable business segments, our   four   International operating segments do not meet the criteria for separate disclosure as reportable business segments. Accordingly, we combine our   four   operating segments into an  all other  category which we refer to as  International  and have revised our business segment information for earlier periods to conform to our new business segment presentation. 
  Our   three   reportable business segments include the following principal brands: 
             
    North American Full-Service  , which includes The Ritz-Carlton, EDITION, JW Marriott, Autograph Collection Hotels, Renaissance Hotels, Marriott Hotels, Delta Hotels and Resorts, and Gaylord Hotels located in the United States and Canada; 
                
    North American Limited-Service  , which includes AC Hotels by Marriott, Courtyard, Residence Inn, SpringHill Suites, Fairfield Inn   Suites, and TownePlace Suites properties, located in the United States and Canada; and 
                
    International  , which includes The Ritz-Carlton, Bulgari Hotels   Resorts, EDITION, JW Marriott, Autograph Collection Hotels, Renaissance Hotels, Marriott Hotels, Marriott Executive Apartments, AC Hotels by Marriott, Courtyard, Residence Inn, Fairfield Inn   Suites, Protea Hotels, and Moxy Hotels located outside the United States and Canada. 
     We evaluate the performance of our operating segments using  segment profits  which is based largely on the results of the segment without allocating corporate expenses, income taxes, or indirect general, administrative, and other expenses. We allocate gains and losses, equity in earnings or losses from our joint ventures, and direct general, administrative, and other expenses to each of our segments.  Other unallocated corporate  represents a portion of our revenues, general, administrative, and other expenses, equity in earnings or losses, and other gains or losses that we do not allocate to our segments. It also includes license fees we receive from our credit card programs and license fees from MVW.  
  Our CODM monitors assets for the consolidated company but does not use assets by operating segment when assessing performance or making operating segment resource allocations.  
  Segment Revenues 

81 

       Table of Contents  

   Segment Profits  

Depreciation and Amortization  

(1)   
    Includes impairment charges of   $12 million   in 2015 and     $25 million   in 2014 on EDITION hotels and residences. See Footnote No.   3  ,    Acquisitions and Dispositions    for more information. 
     Capital Expenditures 

17  .      RELATED PARTY TRANSACTIONS 
  Equity Method Investments 
  We have equity method investments in entities that own properties for which we provide management and/or franchise services and receive fees. We also have equity method investments in entities that provide management and/or franchise services to hotels and receive fees. In addition, in some cases we provide loans, preferred equity, or guarantees to these entities. Undistributed earnings attributable to our equity method investments represented approximately   $2 million   of our consolidated retained earnings at year-end   2015  . 
     82 

     Table of Contents  

   The following tables present financial data resulting from transactions with these related parties: 
  Income Statement Data 

Balance Sheet Data   

  Summarized information for the entities in which we have equity method investments is as follows: 
  Income Statement Data   

  Balance Sheet Summary   

  Other Related Parties 
  We received management fees of approximately $  13 million   in 2015, $  12 million   in 2014, and $  11 million   in 2013, plus reimbursement of certain expenses, from our operation of properties owned by JWM Family Enterprises, L.P., which is beneficially owned and controlled by J.W. Marriott, Jr., Deborah Marriott Harrison, and other members of the Marriott family. 
    18  .      RELATIONSHIP WITH MAJOR CUSTOMER    
  Host Hotels   Resorts, Inc., formerly known as Host Marriott Corporation, and its affiliates ( Host ) owned or leased   58   lodging properties at year-end   2015  ,   61   lodging properties at year-end   2014  , and   66   lodging properties at year-end   2013   that we operated under long-term agreements. Over the last three years, we recognized revenues, including cost reimbursements  
     83 

     Table of Contents  

   revenue, of   $1,888 million   in   2015  ,   $1,927 million   in   2014  , and   $2,016 million   in   2013   from those lodging properties, and included those revenues in all   three   of our business segments. 
  Host is also a partner in certain unconsolidated partnerships that own lodging properties that we operate under long-term agreements. Host was affiliated with   nine   such properties at year-end   2015  ,   nine   such properties at year-end   2014  , and   ten   such properties at year-end   2013  . We recognized revenues, including cost reimbursements revenue, of   $103 million   in   2015  ,   $106 million   in   2014  , and   $87 million   in   2013   from those lodging properties, and included those revenues in our North American Full-Service and International segments. 
     84 

       Table of Contents  

   SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL DATA   UNAUDITED 

Item 9. 
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure. 
     None. 
             Item 9A. 
    Controls and Procedures. 
     Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
  As of the end of the period covered by this annual report, we evaluated, under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act )). Management necessarily applied its judgment in assessing the costs and benefits of those controls and procedures, which by their nature, can provide only reasonable assurance about management s control objectives. You should note that the design of any system of controls is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and we cannot assure you that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions, regardless of how remote. Based upon this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and the Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective and operating to provide reasonable assurance that we record, process, summarize and report the information we are required to disclose in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act within the time periods specified in the rules and forms of the SEC, and to provide reasonable assurance that we accumulate and communicate such information to our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions about required disclosure. 
  Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
  We have set forth management s report on internal control over financial reporting and the attestation report of our independent registered public accounting firm on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting in Item 8 of this Form 10-K, and we incorporate those reports here by reference. 
  We made no changes in internal control over financial reporting during the   fourth   quarter of   2015   that materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting.  
             Item 9B. 
    Other Information. 
     None. 
     85 

       Table of Contents  

   PART III 
    
    Items 10, 11, 12, 13, 14.  
  As described below, we incorporate by reference in this Annual Report on Form 10-K certain information appearing in the Proxy Statement that we will furnish to our shareholders in connection with our   2016   Annual Meeting of Shareholders.  
                 Item 10. Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance. 
    We incorporate this information by reference to  Our Board of Directors,   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,   Audit Committee,   Transactions with Related Persons,  and  Selection of Director Nominees  sections of our Proxy Statement. We have included information regarding our executive officers and our Code of Ethics below. 

Item 11. Executive Compensation. 
    We incorporate this information by reference to the  Executive and Director Compensation  and  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  sections of our Proxy Statement. 

Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters. 
    We incorporate this information by reference to the  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans  and the  Stock Ownership  sections of our Proxy Statement. 

Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence. 
    We incorporate this information by reference to the  Transactions with Related Persons,  and  Director Independence  sections of our Proxy Statement. 

Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services. 
    We incorporate this information by reference to the  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm Fee Disclosure  and the  Pre-Approval of Independent Auditor Fees and Services Policy  sections of our Proxy Statement. 

86 

       Table of Contents  

   EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT  
  We include below certain information on our executive officers. This information is as of February 1, 2016, except where indicated.    
                         Name and Title 
      
    Age 
      
    Business Experience 
      J.W. Marriott, Jr. 
  Executive Chairman and 
  Chairman of the Board 
      
    83 

J.W. Marriott, Jr. was elected Executive Chairman effective March 31, 2012, having decided to relinquish his position as Chief Executive Officer. He served as Chief Executive Officer of the Company and its predecessors since 1972. He joined Marriott Corporation (now known as Host Hotels   Resorts, Inc.) in 1956, became President and a Director in 1964. Mr. Marriott serves on the Board of The J. Willard   Alice S. Marriott Foundation. He is a member of the National Business Council and the Executive Committee of the World Travel   Tourism Council. Mr. Marriott has served as a Director of the Company and its predecessors since 1964. 

Arne M. Sorenson 
  President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    57 

Arne M. Sorenson became President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company on March 31, 2012 and was appointed to the Board of Directors in February 2011. Mr. Sorenson joined Marriott in 1996 as Senior Vice President of Business Development, was named Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer in 1998, assumed the additional title of President, Continental European Lodging, in 2003 and was appointed Marriott s President and Chief Operating Officer in 2009. Before joining Marriott, he was a Partner in the law firm of Latham   Watkins in Washington, D.C. Mr. Sorenson serves as the Chair of the Board of Directors for Brand USA, on the Board of Regents of Luther College, on the Board of Trustees of Brookings, and as Vice Chair of the President of the United States  Export Council. 

Bao Giang Val Bauduin 
  Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 
      
    39 

Val Bauduin became our Controller and Chief Accounting Officer in June 2014, with responsibility for the accounting operations of the Company including oversight of Financial Reporting   Analysis, Accounting Policy, Governance, Risk Management (Insurance, Claims, Business Continuity, Fire   Life Safety), Accenture Hospitality Services and the Corporate Finance Business Partners. Prior to joining Marriott, Mr. Bauduin was a Partner and U.S. Hospitality leader of Deloitte   Touche LLP from 2011 to 2014, where he has served as a Travel, Hospitality   Leisure industry expert for Deloitte teams globally. Prior to that, Mr. Bauduin was a Senior Manager of Deloitte from 2005 to 2011. He has a strong international background, and has built and led cross-functional (tax, valuation and IT) international professional service teams engaged at diverse client organizations, including several large and well-known public hospitality clients. He has supported complex capital market transactions, spinoffs and real estate development projects related to gaming and hospitality. Mr. Bauduin earned a Bachelor of Arts in Economics from the University of Notre Dame and a Master of Business Administration in Finance from The Wharton School at the University of Pennsylvania. He is also a Certified Public Accountant. 

Anthony G. Capuano 
  Executive Vice President 
  and Global Chief Development Officer 
      
    50 

Anthony G. Capuano became Marriott s Executive Vice President and Global Chief Development Officer in 2009. He is responsible for the global development of all Marriott lodging brands and supervises 20 offices outside of North America as well as multiple offices across North America. Mr. Capuano began his Marriott International career in 1995 as part of the Market Planning and Feasibility team. Between 1997 and 2005, he led Marriott s full service development efforts in the Western U.S. and Canada. In early 2008, his responsibilities expanded to include North America, the Caribbean and Latin America. Mr. Capuano began his professional career in Laventhol and Horwath s Boston-based Leisure Time Advisory Group. He then joined Kenneth Leventhal and Company s hospitality consulting group in Los Angeles, CA. Mr. Capuano earned his bachelor s degree in Hotel Administration from Cornell University. He is an active member of the Cornell Society of Hotelmen and a member of The Cornell School of Hotel Administration Dean s Advisory Board. Mr. Capuano is also a member of the American Hotel and Lodging Association s Industry Real Estate Financial Advisory Council.  

87 

       Table of Contents  

                          Name and Title 
      
    Age 
      
    Business Experience 
      David Grissen Group President 
      
    58 

David Grissen became Group President effective February 2014, assuming additional responsibility for The Ritz-Carlton and Global Operations Services. He became the Group President for The Americas in 2012, with responsibility for all business activities including operations, sales and marketing, revenue management, human resources, engineering, rooms operations, food and beverage, retail, spa, information technology and development. Prior to this, he served as President, Americas from 2010; Executive Vice President of the Eastern Region from 2005; Senior Vice President of the Mid-Atlantic Region and Senior Vice President of Finance and Business Development from 2000. Mr. Grissen is chair of the Americas  Hotel Development Committee and a member of the Lodging Strategy Group and Corporate Growth Committee. He is a member of the Board of Directors of Regis Corporation and also Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors for Back on My Feet, an organization that helps individuals experiencing homelessness. Mr. Grissen holds a bachelor s degree from Michigan State University and a master s degree from Loyola University in Chicago.  

Alex Kyriakidis 
  President   Managing Director 
  Middle East   Africa 
      
    63 

Alex Kyriakidis joined Marriott in January 2012 as President and Managing Director, Middle East and Africa with responsibility for all business activities for the Middle East and Africa Region (MEA), including operations, sales and marketing, finance and hotel development. Before joining Marriott, Mr. Kyriakidis served for 10 years as Global Managing Director - Travel, Hospitality and Leisure for Deloitte LLP. In this role, Mr. Kyriakidis led the Global Travel, Hospitality and Leisure Industry team, where he was responsible for a team of 4,500 professionals that generated $700 million in revenues. Mr. Kyriakidis has 40 years of experience providing strategic, financial, M A, operational, asset management and integration services to the travel, hospitality and leisure sectors. He has served clients in 25 countries, predominantly in the Europe, MEA and Asia Pacific regions. He is a fellow of the Arab Society of Certified Accountants, the British Association of Hotel Accountants and the Institute of Chartered Accountants in England and Wales. Mr. Kyriakidis holds a bachelor of science degree in computer science and mathematics from Leeds University in the United Kingdom. 

Stephanie Linnartz 
  Executive Vice President and 
  Global Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer 
      
    47 

Stephanie Linnartz became the Global Chief Marketing and Commercial Officer in March 2013 and was named an executive officer in February 2014. She has responsibility for the Company s brand management, marketing, eCommerce, sales, reservations, revenue management, consumer insight, and information technology functions. Prior to assuming her current position, Ms. Linnartz served as Global Officer, Sales and Revenue Management from 2009 to 2013; Senior Vice President, Global Sales from 2008 to 2009; and Senior Vice President, Sales and Marketing Planning and Support from 2005 to 2008. She holds a master of business administration from the College of William and Mary. 

Amy C. McPherson 
  President   Managing Director 
  Europe 
      
    54 

Amy C. McPherson was appointed President and Managing Director of Europe, a division that encompasses Continental Europe, the United Kingdom, and Ireland, in July 2009. Ms. McPherson joined Marriott in 1986 and most recently served as Executive Vice President of Global Sales and Marketing responsible for the Company s global and field sales, marketing, Marriott Rewards program, revenue management and eCommerce from 2005 until she was named to her current position. Other key positions held by Ms. McPherson include Senior Vice President of Business Transformation and Integration, and Vice President of Finance and Business Development. Before joining Marriott, she worked for Air Products   Chemicals in Allentown, PA. 

88 

       Table of Contents  

                          Name and Title 
      
    Age 
      
    Business Experience 
      Kathleen K. Oberg 
  Executive Vice President and Chief 
  Financial Officer  
      
    55 

Kathleen ("Leeny") K. Oberg was appointed Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Marriott, effective January 1, 2016. Ms. Oberg most recently served, from 2013 to December 2015, as the Chief Financial Officer for The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C., an operator of luxury hotels and resorts worldwide, and a subsidiary of Marriott. Prior to that, she served as Marriott s Senior Vice President, Corporate and Development Finance from 2008 to 2013, leading a team providing a broad range of corporate finance and valuation support to senior management. Ms. Oberg was a key member of the leadership team that structured and executed the spin-off of Marriott s timeshare business in 2011. From 2006 to 2008, she served as Senior Vice President, International Project Finance and Asset Management for Europe, the Middle East and Africa and served as the region s senior finance executive. Ms. Oberg originally joined Marriott in 1999 in Investor Relations and served as one of the company s primary contacts with institutional investors and analysts. In 2004, she was promoted to Vice President of Project Finance and served in this role for two years before moving to London. Ms. Oberg has also held numerous financial leadership positions with such organizations as Sodexo (previously Sodexho Marriott Services), Sallie Mae, Goldman Sachs and Chase Manhattan Bank. She earned her Bachelor of Science in Finance/Management Information Systems from the University of Virginia, McIntyre School of Business and received her MBA from Stanford University Graduate School of Business. 

David A. Rodriguez 
  Executive Vice President 
  and Global Chief Human Resources Officer 
      
    57 

David A. Rodriguez was appointed Executive Vice President and Global Chief Human Resources Officer in 2006. Dr. Rodriguez joined Marriott as Senior Vice President-Staffing   Development in 1998 and was appointed Executive Vice President Human Resources for Marriott Lodging in 2003. Before joining Marriott, he held several senior roles in human resources at Citicorp (now Citigroup) from 1989 through 1998. Dr. Rodriguez holds a doctorate degree in industrial/organizational psychology from New York University and is an elected fellow of the National Academy of Human Resources. 

Edward A. Ryan 
  Executive Vice President and 
  General Counsel 
      
    62 

Edward A. Ryan was named Executive Vice President and General Counsel in November 2006. He joined Marriott in 1996 as Assistant General Counsel, was promoted to Senior Vice President and Associate General Counsel in 1999, when he had responsibility for all new management agreements and real estate development worldwide for full-service and limited-service hotels; in 2005 he also assumed responsibility for all corporate transactions and corporate governance. Before joining Marriott, Mr. Ryan was a Partner at the law firm of Hogan   Hartson (now Hogan Lovells) in Washington, D.C. 

Craig S. Smith  
  President   Managing Director 
  Asia Pacific 
      
    53 

Craig S. Smith became President and Managing Director of Asia Pacific in June 2015, assuming the responsibility for the strategic leadership of all operational and development functions spanning 15 countries and 11 brands. Mr. Smith began his career with Marriott in February 1988. Prior to his current position, Mr. Smith served as President of Marriott s Caribbean and Latin American region from 2011 to 2015. Before moving to the Caribbean and Latin American region in 2011, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Operations Officer for Asia Pacific. As the son of an American diplomat, Mr. Smith has lived in 13 countries, working in North America, the Caribbean, Latin America, Asia-Pacific, and Australia. He is fluent in Spanish and conversant in Portuguese. Mr. Smith earned his MBA from the Rotman School of Management at the University of Toronto, and a Bachelor of Science from Brigham Young University. 

89 

       Table of Contents  

   Code of Ethics and Business Conduct Guide 
  We have long maintained and enforced a Code of Ethics that applies to   all   Marriott associates, including our Executive Chairman, Chief Executive Officer, Chief Financial Officer, and Principal Accounting Officer, and to each member of our Board of Directors. Our Code of Ethics is encompassed in our Business Conduct Guide, which you can find in the Investor Relations section of our website (Marriott.com/investor) by clicking on  Corporate Governance  and then  Governance Documents.  We will post on the Investor Relations section of our website any future changes or amendments to our Code of Ethics, and any waiver of our Code of Ethics that applies to our Chairman of the Board, any of our executive officers, or member of the Board of Directors, within four business days following the date of such amendment or waiver. 

90 

       Table of Contents  

   PART IV 
    
             Item 15.  
    Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules. 
     LIST OF DOCUMENTS FILED AS PART OF THIS REPORT 
  (1) FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  We include this portion of Item 15 under Item 8 of this Report on Form 10-K. 
  (2) FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  We include the financial statement schedule information required by the applicable accounting regulations of the SEC in the notes to our financial statements and incorporate that information in this Item 15 by reference. 
  (3) EXHIBITS 
  Any shareholder who wants a copy of the following Exhibits may obtain one from us upon request at a charge that reflects the reproduction cost of such Exhibits. Requests should be made to the Secretary, Marriott International, Inc., 10400 Fernwood Road, Department 52/862, Bethesda, MD 20817. 

91 

     Table of Contents  

92 

     Table of Contents  

                        Exhibit No. 
      
    Description 
      
    Incorporation by Reference 
  (where a report is indicated below, that 
  document has been previously filed with the SEC 
  and the applicable exhibit is incorporated by 
  reference thereto) 
      *10.14 
       
    Form of Stock Appreciation Right Agreement for the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan (Off-Cycle Grants). 
       
    Exhibit No. 10.12 to our Form 10-K filed February 12, 2009 (File No. 001-13881). 

*10.15 
       
    Form of Stock Appreciation Right Agreement for the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan (Annual Grants). 
       
    Exhibit No. 10.13 to our Form 10-K filed February 12, 2009 (File No. 001-13881). 

*10.16 
       
    Form of Stock Appreciation Right Agreement for the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan (For Non-Employee Directors). 
       
    Exhibit No. 10.8 to our Form 10-K filed February 15, 2008 (File No. 001-13881). 

*10.17 
      
    Form of Performance Share Award Agreement for the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan. 
      
    Filed with this report. 

*10.18 
       
    Summary of Marriott International, Inc. Director Compensation. 
       
    Filed with this report. 

*10.19 
       
    Marriott International, Inc. Executive Officer Incentive Plan and Executive Officer Individual Performance Plan. 
       
    Exhibit No. 10.10 to our Form 10-K filed February 15, 2008 (File No. 001-13881). 

10.20 
      
    License, Services and Development Agreement entered into on November 17, 2011, among Marriott International, Inc., Marriott Worldwide Corporation, Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation and the other signatories thereto. 
      
    Exhibit No. 10.1 to our Form 8-K filed November 21, 2011 (File No. 001-13881). 

10.21 
      
    License, Services and Development Agreement entered into on November 17, 2011, among The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C., Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation and the other signatories thereto. 
      
    Exhibit No. 10.2 to our Form 8-K filed November 21, 2011 (File No. 001-13881). 

10.22 
      
    Marriott Rewards Affiliation Agreement entered into on November 17, 2011, among Marriott International, Inc., Marriott Rewards, L.L.C., Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation and certain of its subsidiaries, Marriott Ownership Resorts, Inc. and the other signatories thereto. 
      
    Exhibit No. 10.5 to our Form 8-K filed November 21, 2011 (File No. 001-13881). 

10.23 
      
    Non-Competition Agreement entered into on November 17, 2011, with Marriott Vacations Worldwide Corporation. 
      
    Exhibit No. 10.6 to our Form 8-K filed November 21, 2011 (File No. 001-13881). 

12 
       
    Statement of Computation of Ratio of Earnings to Fixed Charges. 
       
    Filed with this report. 

21 
       
    Subsidiaries of Marriott International, Inc. 
       
    Filed with this report. 

23 
       
    Consent of Ernst   Young LLP. 
       
    Filed with this report. 

31.1 
       
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a). 
       
    Filed with this report. 

31.2 
       
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a). 
       
    Filed with this report. 

32 
       
    Section 1350 Certifications. 
       
    Furnished with this report. 

101.INS 
       
    XBRL Instance Document. 
       
    Submitted electronically with this report. 

101.SCH 
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document. 
       
    Submitted electronically with this report. 

101.CAL 
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document. 
       
    Submitted electronically with this report. 

93 

     Table of Contents  

                        Exhibit No. 
      
    Description 
      
    Incorporation by Reference 
  (where a report is indicated below, that 
  document has been previously filed with the SEC 
  and the applicable exhibit is incorporated by 
  reference thereto) 
      101.DEF 
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase. 
       
    Submitted electronically with this report. 

101.LAB 
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document. 
       
    Submitted electronically with this report. 

101.PRE 
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document. 
       
    Submitted electronically with this report. 

*  
    Denotes management contract or compensatory plan. 
       
  We have submitted electronically the following documents formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language) as Exhibit 101 to this report: (i) the Consolidated Statements of Income for the year-ended   December 31, 2015  ,   December 31, 2014  , and   December 31, 2013  ; (ii) the Consolidated Balance Sheets at   December 31, 2015  , and   December 31, 2014  ; (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the year-ended   December 31, 2015  ,   December 31, 2014  , and   December 31, 2013  ; (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the year-ended   December 31, 2015  ,   December 31, 2014  , and   December 31, 2013  ; (v) the Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  (Deficit) Equity for the year-ended   December 31, 2015  ,   December 31, 2014  , and   December 31, 2013  ; and (vi) Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  

94 

       Table of Contents  

    SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, we have duly caused this Form 10-K to be signed on our behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on this    18   th    day of February 2016   . 
  MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
    
                   By: 
      
    /s/ Arne M. Sorenson 

Arne M. Sorenson 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Form 10-K has been signed by the following persons on our behalf in the capacities indicated and on the date indicated above.    
                   PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER: 

/s/ Arne M. Sorenson 
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
      Arne M. Sorenson 

PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER: 

/s/ Kathleen K. Oberg 
      
    Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
      Kathleen K. Oberg 

PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING OFFICER: 

/s/ Bao Giang Val Bauduin 
      
    Controller and Chief Accounting Officer 
      Bao Giang Val Bauduin 

DIRECTORS: 

/s/ J.W. Marriott, Jr. 
      
    /s/ Debra L. Lee 
      J.W. Marriott, Jr., Chairman of the Board 
      
    Debra L. Lee, Director 

/s/ Mary K. Bush 
      
    /s/ George Mu oz 
      Mary K. Bush, Director 
      
    George Mu oz, Director 

/s/ Deborah Marriott Harrison 
      
    /s/ Steven S Reinemund 
      Deborah Marriott Harrison, Director 
      
    Steven S Reinemund, Director 

/s/ Frederick A. Henderson 
      
    /s/ W. Mitt Romney 
      Frederick A. Henderson, Director 
      
    W. Mitt Romney, Director 

/s/ Lawrence W. Kellner 
      
    /s/ Susan C. Schwab 
      Lawrence W. Kellner, Director 
      
    Susan C. Schwab, Director 

95 

<EX-10.17>
 2
 mar-q42015xexx1017.htm
 PERFORMANCE SHARE AWARD AGREEMENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.17 
  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT [TEMPLATE] 
  MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.  
  STOCK AND CASH INCENTIVE PLAN 
  
  THIS AGREEMENT (the  Agreement ) is made on    GRANT DATE    (the  Grant Date ) by MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. (the  Company ) and    PARTICIPANT NAME    ( Employee ). 
  WITNESSETH: 
  WHEREAS, the Company maintains the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan, as amended (the  Plan  and 
  WHEREAS, the Company wishes to award to designated employees certain Other Share-Based Awards ( Awards ) as provided in Article 10 of the Plan to be known as  Performance Share Unit  awards; and 
  WHEREAS, Employee has been approved by the Compensation Policy Committee (the  Committee ) of the Company s Board of Directors (the  Board ) to receive an award of Performance Share Units under the Plan; 
  NOW, THEREFORE, it is agreed as follows: 
  1.  Prospectus  . Employee has been provided with, and hereby acknowledges receipt of, a Prospectus for the Plan dated    DATE   , which contains, among other things, a detailed description of the Other Share-Based Awards provisions of the Plan. Employee further acknowledges that he has read the Prospectus and this Agreement, and that Employee understands the provisions thereof. 
  2.  Interpretation  . The provisions of the Plan are incorporated herein by reference and form an integral part of this Agreement. Except as otherwise set forth herein, capitalized terms used herein shall have the meanings given to them in the Plan. In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. A copy of the Plan is available from the Compensation Department of the Company upon request. All decisions and interpretations made by the Committee or its delegate with regard to any question arising hereunder or under the Plan shall be binding and conclusive. 
  3.  Grant of Performance Share Units  . Subject to the terms of the Plan, Employee s acceptance of this Agreement, and subject to satisfaction of the tax provisions of the Company s International Assignment Policy ( IAP ), if applicable, the Company hereby grants this target award (the  Award ) of    QTY GRANTED    Performance Share Units as of the Grant Date. The Performance Share Units are contingently awarded and will be earned and payable if and to the extent that (i) the performance goals set forth in Appendix A are achieved for the    #   -year performance period beginning January 1,    YEAR    and ending December 31,    YEAR    (the  Performance Period ), and (ii) the Conditions of Transfer set forth in paragraph 5 are satisfied.  The Committee in its sole discretion may modify this Award at any time to add or change such performance conditions as it deems appropriate in order for the Award to qualify (or continue to qualify) as  performance-based compensation  for purposes of section 162(m) of the Code. 
  The number of Performance Share Units that Employee will earn (if any) may be [greater][,][equal to][or][less] than the Award, and will be based on the performance level achieved. Performance level is measured against the [threshold][,][target] [and] [maximum] performance levels set forth in Appendix A. The number of Performance Share Units earned is calculated as a percentage of the Award: if the threshold performance level is achieved,     X   % of the number of Performance Share Units subject to the Award will be earned; if the target performance level is achieved, 100% of the Performance Share Units subject to the Award will be earned; if the maximum performance level is achieved,    X   % of the Performance Share Units subject to the Award will be earned. If actual performance is between levels, the number of Performance Share Units earned will be interpolated on a straight line basis for pro-rata achievement of the performance goals. Failure to achieve threshold performance will result in no Performance Share Units being earned. The Award shall remain forfeitable except to the extent the Committee certifies the performance at the end of the Performance Period and the Conditions of Transfer set forth in paragraph 5 are satisfied. 
  4.  Distribution of Performance Share Units  . Subject to satisfaction of the performance goal set forth in Appendix A and the Conditions of Transfer in paragraph 5, the Performance Share Units shall be distributed on February 15,    YEAR   , or if later, the day after the Committee certifies that the performance goal set forth in Appendix A has been satisfied at the end of the Performance Period (the  Distribution Date ). Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that on the Distribution Date stock of the Company is not traded on the NASDAQ or another national exchange, then the Distribution Date shall be the next following day on which the stock of the Company is traded on the NASDAQ or another national exchange ( Trading Day ). Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Distribution Date shall not be later than December 31,    YEAR   . 

On the Distribution Date, provided the threshold performance goal set forth in Appendix A and the Conditions of Transfer have been satisfied, the Company shall transfer a corresponding number of shares of the Common Stock of the Company (the  Common Shares ) (which may be reduced by the number of shares withheld to satisfy withholding taxes as set forth in paragraph 9 below, if share reduction is the method utilized for satisfying the tax withholding obligation) to an individual brokerage account (the  Account ) established and maintained in Employee s name. Employee shall have all the rights of a stockholder with respect to such Common Shares following their transfer to the Account, including but not limited to the right to vote the Common Shares , to sell, transfer, liquidate or otherwise dispose of the Common Shares, and to receive all dividends or other distributions paid or made with respect to the Common Shares from the time they are deposited in the Account. Employee shall have no voting, transfer, liquidation, dividend or other rights of a Common Share stockholder with respect to Performance Share Units prior to such time that the corresponding Common Shares are transferred, if at all, to Employee s Account. 
  5.   Conditions of Transfer  . With respect to any Performance Share Units awarded to Employee, as a condition of Employee receiving a transfer of corresponding Common Shares in accordance with paragraph 4 above, Employee shall meet all of the following conditions during the entire period from the Grant Date hereof through the Distribution Date relating to such Performance Share Units: 
           (a) 
    Employee must continue to be an active employee of the Company ( Continuous Employment  
              (b) 
    Employee must refrain from Engaging in Competition (as defined in Section 2.25 of the Plan) without first having obtained the written consent thereto from the Company ( Non-competition  and 
              (c) 
    Employee must refrain from committing any criminal offense or malicious tort relating to or against the Company or, as determined by the Committee in its discretion, engaging in willful acts or omissions or acts or omissions of gross negligence that are or potentially are injurious to the Company s operations, financial condition or business reputation. ( No Improper Conduct ). The Company s determination as to whether or not particular conduct constitutes Improper Conduct shall be conclusive. 
     If Employee should fail to meet the requirements relating to (i) Continuous Employment, (ii) Non-competition, or (iii) No Improper Conduct, then Employee shall forfeit the right to receive a distribution of any Performance Share Units for which the above conditions of transfer have not already been met as of the time such failure is determined, and Employee shall accordingly forfeit the right to receive the transfer of title to any corresponding Common Shares. The forfeiture of rights with respect to Performance Share Units (and corresponding Common Shares) shall not affect the rights of Employee with respect to any Performance Share Units for which the above conditions of transfer already have been met nor with respect to any Common Shares the title of which has already been transferred to Employee s Account. 
  6.   Non-Assignability.   The Performance Share Units shall not be assignable or transferable by Employee except by will or by the laws of descent and distribution. During Employee s lifetime, the Performance Share Units may be exercised only by Employee or, in the event of incompetence, by Employee s legally appointed guardian. 
  7.   Effect of Termination of Employment  . Except as specified below, if the Employee ceases to be employed by, or provide services to, the Company before the Distribution Date, the Award will be forfeited. 
           (a) 
    In the event Employee s Continuous Employment is terminated prior to the relevant Distribution Date on account of death, and if Employee had otherwise met the requirements of Continuous Employment, Non-competition and No Improper Conduct from the Grant Date through the date of such death, then Employee shall upon death be deemed to have fully satisfied all of the Conditions of Transfer in paragraph 5 and to have met the target level of performance with respect to the goal set forth in Appendix A, and Employee s rights hereunder with respect to any such Performance Share Units shall inure to the benefit of Employee s executors, administrators, personal representatives and assigns.  
              (b) 
    In the event Employee s Continuous Employment is terminated prior to the Distribution Date on account of Employee s Retirement (as defined below), and if Employee had otherwise met the requirements of Continuous Employment, Non-competition and No Improper Conduct from the Grant Date through the date of such Retirement, and provided that Employee continues to meet the requirements of Non-competition and No Improper Conduct, then Employee s rights hereunder with respect to any outstanding Performance Share Units shall continue in the same manner as if Employee continued to meet the Continuous Employment requirement through the Distribution Date related to the Award, except not for that portion of Performance Share Units granted less than one year prior to Employee s termination equal to such number of shares multiplied by the ratio of (a) the number of days after the termination date and before the first anniversary of the Grant Date, over (b) the number of days in the twelve (12) month period following the Grant Date. For purposes of this Agreement,  Retirement  shall mean termination of employment on account of Disability (as defined in Section 2.19 of the Plan) or by retiring with the specific approval of the Committee on or after such date on which Employee has attained age 55 and completed ten (10) Years of Service.  

Except as set forth in this paragraph 7 above, no other transfer of rights with respect to Performance Share Units shall be permitted pursuant to this Agreement. 
  8.   Non-Solicitation.   In consideration of good and valuable consideration in the form of the Performance Share Unit Awards granted herein to which Employee is not otherwise entitled, the receipt and sufficiency of which are hereby acknowledged, and 
  in recognition of the Company s legitimate purpose of avoiding for limited times competition from persons whom Marriott has trained and/or given experience, Employee agrees that during the period beginning on the Grant Date and ending one year following his termination of employment with the Company, whether such termination of employment is voluntary or involuntary or with or without cause, he will not, on his own behalf or as a partner, officer, director, employee, agent, or consultant of any other person or entity, directly or indirectly contact, solicit or induce (or attempt to solicit or induce) any employee of the Company to leave their employment with the Company or consider employment with any other person or entity. Employee and the Company agree that any breach by Employee of the non-solicitation obligation under this paragraph will cause the Company immediate, material and irreparable injury and damage, and there is no adequate remedy at law for such breach. Accordingly, in the event of such breach, in addition to any other remedies it may have at law or in equity, the Company shall be entitled immediately to seek enforcement of this Agreement in a court of competent jurisdiction by means of a decree of specific performance, an injunction without the posting of a bond or the requirement of any other guarantee, any other form of equitable relief, liquidated damages in the amount of one hundred fifty percent (150%) of the Fair Market Value of the Awards granted hereunder as of the Grant Date, and the Company is entitled to recover from Employee the costs and attorneys  fees it incurs to recover under or enforce this Agreement. This provision is not a waiver of any other rights that the Company may have under this Agreement, including the right to receive money damages. 
  1.  Taxes  . The transfer of Common Shares shall be subject to the further condition that the Company shall provide for the withholding of any taxes required by applicable federal, state, or local law by reducing the number of Performance Share Units to be transferred to Employee s Account or by such other manner as the Committee shall determine in its discretion. 
  2.  Consent.   By executing this Agreement, Employee consents to the collection, maintenance and processing of Employee s personal information (such as Employee s name, home address, home telephone number and email address, social security number, assets and income information, birth date, hire date, termination date, other employment information, citizenship, marital status) by the Company and the Company s service providers for the purposes of (i) administering the Plan (including ensuring that the conditions of transfer are satisfied from the Grant Date through the Distribution Date), 
  (ii) providing Employee with services in connection with Employee s participation in the Plan, and (iii) meeting legal and regulatory requirements ( Permitted Purposes ). Employee s personal information will not be processed for longer than is necessary for such Permitted Purposes. Employee s personal information is collected from the following sources: 
           (a) 
    from this Agreement, investor questionnaires or other forms that Employee submits to the Company or contracts that Employee enters into with the Company; 
              (b) 
    from Employee s transactions with the Company, the Company s affiliates and service providers; 
              (c) 
    from Employee s employment records with the Company; and 
              (d) 
    from meetings, telephone conversations and other communications with Employee. 
     In addition, Employee further consents to the Company disclosing Employee s personal information to the Company s third party service providers and affiliates and other entities in connection with the services the Company provides related to Employee s participation in the Plan, including: 
           (a) 
    financial service providers, such as broker-dealers, custodians, banks and others used to finance or facilitate transactions by, or operations of, the Plan; 
              (b) 
    other service providers to the Plan, such as accounting, legal, or tax preparation services; 
              (c) 
    regulatory authorities; and 
              (d) 
    transfer agents, portfolio companies, brokerage firms and the like, in connection with distributions to Plan participants. 
     Where Employee s personal information is provided to such third parties, the Company requires (to the extent permitted by applicable law) that such parties agree to process Employee s personal information in accordance with the Company s instructions. 
  Employee s personal information is maintained on the Company s networks and the networks of the Company s service providers, which may be in the United States or other countries other than the country in which this Award was granted. Employee acknowledges and agrees that the transfer of Employee s personal information to the United States or other 
  countries other than the country in which this Award was granted is necessary for the Permitted Purposes. To the extent (if any) that the provisions of the European Union s Data Protection Directive (Directive 95/46/EC of the European Parliament and of 

the Council) and/or applicable national legislation derived from such Directive apply, then by executing this Agreement Employee expressly consents to the transfer of Employee s personal information outside of the European Economic Area. Employee may access Employee s personal information to verify its accuracy, update Employee s personal information and/or request a copy of Employee s personal information by contacting Employee s local Human Resources representative. Employee may obtain account transaction information online or by contacting the Plan record keeper as described in the Plan enrollment materials. By accepting the terms of this Agreement, Employee further agrees to the same terms with respect to other Awards Employee received in any prior year under the Plan. 
  1.  No Additional Rights.   Benefits under this Plan are not guaranteed. The grant of Awards is a one-time benefit and does not create any contractual or other right or claim to any future grants of Awards under the Plan, nor does a grant of Awards guarantee future participation in the Plan. The value of Employee s Awards is an extraordinary item outside the scope of Employee s employment contract, if any. Employee s Awards are not part of normal or expected compensation for purposes of calculating any severance, resignation, redundancy, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-term service awards, pension or retirement benefits (except as otherwise provided by the terms of any U.S.-qualified retirement or pension plan maintained by the Company), or similar payments. By accepting the terms of this Agreement, Employee further agrees to these same terms and conditions with respect to any other Awards Employee received in any prior year under the Plan. 
  2.  Amendment of This Agreement  . The Board of Directors may at any time amend, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan or the Award shall adversely affect the Award in any material way without written consent of Employee. 
  3.  Notices.   Notices hereunder shall be in writing, and if to the Company, may be delivered personally to the Compensation Department or such other party as designated by the Company or mailed to its principal office at 10400 Fernwood Road, Bethesda, Maryland 20817, addressed to the attention of the Stock Option Administrator (Department 935.40), and if to Employee, may be delivered personally or mailed to Employee at his or her address on the records of the Company. 
  4.  Successors and Assigns  . This Agreement shall bind and inure to the benefit of the parties hereto and the successors and assigns of the Company and, to the extent provided in paragraph 7 above and in the Plan, to the personal representatives, legatees and heirs of Employee. 
  5.  No Effect on Employment  . This agreement is not a contract of employment or otherwise a limitation on the right of the Company to terminate the employment of Employee or to increase or decrease Employee s compensation from the rate of compensation in existence at the time this Agreement is executed. 
  6.  Additional (Non-U.S.) Terms and Conditions.   Performance Share Units awarded under this Agreement shall be subject to additional terms and conditions, as applicable, set forth in the Company s Policies for Global Compliance of Equity Compensation Awards, which are attached in the Appendix hereto and shall be incorporated herein fully by reference. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. has caused this Agreement to be signed by its Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources, effective the day and year first hereinabove written. 

MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC.                EMPLOYEE 
                   /s/ David A. Rodriguez 

PARTICIPANT NAME  

Executive Vice President, Global Human Resources 
      
    Signed Electronically 

APPENDIX A 
  PERFORMANCE GOAL 
  The number of Performance Share Units that may be earned shall be determined based on the actual performance level achieved with respect to the following performance measure for the Performance Period. The chart below sets forth the percentage of Award at each performance level: 
                   Performance Measure 
    Accomplishment  
  vs. Target 
    % of Target Units Earned* 

* The number of Performance Share Units earned will be interpolated for achievement between two of the accomplishment levels. No Performance Share Units will be earned for achievement below the threshold performance level. 

The Committee in its sole discretion may modify this Award at any time to add or change such performance conditions as it deems appropriate in order for the Award to qualify (or continue to qualify) as  performance-based compensation  for purposes of section 162(m) of the Internal Revenue Code.  MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
  POLICIES FOR GLOBAL COMPLIANCE OF EQUITY COMPENSATION AWARDS 
  This document (the  Policies ) sets forth policies of Marriott International, Inc. ( Marriott ) for the administration of equity compensation awards (the  Awards ) granted to employees (the  Employees ) of Marriott and its subsidiaries (together, the  Company ) under the Marriott International, Inc. Stock and Cash Incentive Plan, as amended and restated effective January 1, 2008, and as subsequently amended from time to time (the  Plan ). The Policies apply to certain Employees who have received or held Awards under the Plan while working for the Company outside of the United States. 
  The Policies, as may be amended by the Company from time to time for changes in law, are an integral part of the terms of each agreement (the  Agreement ) under which Awards are granted to Employees under the Plan. As such, the Policies set forth additional requirements or conditions in the non-U.S. jurisdictions indicated below that certain Employees   must satisfy   to receive the intended benefits under their Awards. These requirements or conditions are established to ensure that the Company and the Employees comply with applicable legal requirements pertaining to the Awards in those jurisdictions. In addition, the Policies are established to assist the Employees in complying with other legal requirements which may not implicate the Company. These requirements, some carrying civil or criminal penalties for noncompliance, may apply with respect to Employees  Awards or shares of Marriott stock obtained pursuant to the Awards because of such Employees  presence (which may or may not require citizenship or legal residency) in a particular jurisdiction at some time during the term of the Awards. 
  Legal requirements are often complex and may change frequently. Therefore, the Policies provide general information only and may not be relied upon by Employees as their only source of information relating to the consequences of participation in the Plan, nor may they serve as the basis for recovery against the Company for financial or other penalties incurred by Employees as a result of their noncompliance. Employees should seek appropriate professional advice as to how the relevant laws may apply to them individually. 
  Certain capitalized terms used but not defined in the Policies have the meanings set forth in the Plan or in the Agreements. To the extent the Policies appear to conflict with the terms of the Plan or the Agreements, the Plan and the Agreement shall control. 

COUNTRY-SPECIFIC POLICIES 
  INDIA 
  Exchange Control Notice  . If an Employee is a  Person Resident in India,  the Employee must repatriate to India any proceeds from the sale of shares acquired under the Plan and any dividends received in relation to the shares and convert the proceeds into local currency within 90 days of receipt. In addition, such Employee must obtain a foreign inward remittance certificate ( FIRC ) from the Indian foreign exchange bank where the Employee deposits the foreign currency upon repatriation, and the Employee must maintain the FIRC as evidence of the repatriation of funds in the event the Reserve Bank of India or the Employee s employer requests proof of repatriation. 
  For this purpose, "Person Resident in India" means: 
           i. 
    a person residing in India for more than one hundred and eighty-two days during the course of the  
     preceding financial year but does not include - 
  A.        a person who has gone out of India or who stays outside India, in either case - 
           1. 
    for or on taking up employment outside India, or 
              2. 
    for carrying on a business or vocation outside India, or 
              3. 
    for any other purpose, in such circumstances as would indicate his intention to stay outside India for an uncertain period; or 
     B.        a person who has come to or stays in India, in either case, otherwise than - 
           1. 
    for or on taking up employment in India, or 
              2. 
    for carrying on in India a business or vocation in India, or 
              3. 
    for any other purpose, in such circumstances as would indicate his intention to stay in India for an uncertain period. 
     SOUTH AFRICA 
    
  The Plan falls within the scope of international share incentive schemes approved by the Financial Surveillance Department of the South African Reserve Bank.  
  Private individuals are allowed to participate in offshore share incentive or share option schemes, provided that such participation is financed in terms of the foreign capital allowance dispensation (i.e. the individual is limited to payment of R4million per annum for such participation) and/or from the proceeds of authorised foreign assets. 
  Since the cost of the participation of an individual in the Plan will be charged to the South African employer, the acquisition of shares will have a direct impact on the country s foreign exchange reserves, which means that the participation of the individual will be limited to the value of R4million per annum. Should an employee who qualifies in terms of the incentive scheme wish to acquire shares valued in excess of the amount of R4 million, payment thereof may be effected provided such shares are immediately disposed of and the full sale proceeds thereof transferred to South Africa in terms of Regulation 6. 
  THAILAND 
  Exchange Control Notice.   An Employees who is resident in Thailand (with the exception of an Employee who is a foreigner permitted to reside or work in Thailand for a period not exceeding three months) must repatriate to Thailand the proceeds from the sale of shares acquired under the Plan and any cash dividends received in relation to the shares and convert the funds to Thai Baht within 360 days of receipt. If the repatriated amount is U.S. $20,000 or more, the Employee must report the inward remittance by submitting the Foreign Exchange Transaction Form, which can be obtained from any commercial bank in Thailand, to an authorized agent,   i.e.,   a commercial bank authorized by the Bank of Thailand to engage in the purchase, exchange and withdrawal of foreign currency. 

1020415v1 

</EX-10.17>

<EX-10.18>
 3
 mar-q42015xexx1018.htm
 SUMMARY OF DIRECTOR COMPENSATION

Exhibit 

Exhibit     10.18 
  Summary of Marriott International, Inc. Director Compensation 
  Non- Employee Directors 

Retainer and chair fees are paid on a quarterly basis. However, in accordance with established Company procedures, a director may elect to defer payment of all or a portion of his or her director fees pursuant to the Company s Stock and Cash Incentive Plan and/or the Executive Deferred Compensation Plan.  The Company grants the Non-Employee Director Share Awards following the Company s annual meeting of shareholders. 
    
  Other Information 
  The Company reimburses directors for travel expenses, other out-of-pocket costs they incur when attending meetings and, for one meeting per year, attendance by spouses. To encourage our directors to visit and personally evaluate our properties, the directors also receive complimentary rooms, food and beverages at Company-owned, operated or franchised hotels, as well as the use of hotel-related services such as Marriott-managed golf and spa facilities, when on personal travel. The value of these benefits is reported to the directors as taxable compensation and the directors are not provided any gross-up to cover such taxes.  
  Employee Directors 
  Officers of the Company are not paid for their service as directors. 

</EX-10.18>

<EX-12>
 4
 mar-q42015xexx12.htm
 RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES

Exhibit 

Exhibit 12 
  MARRIOTT INTERNATIONAL, INC. 
  COMPUTATION OF RATIO OF EARNINGS TO FIXED CHARGES 

(1)   
     Interest expensed and capitalized  includes amortized premiums, discounts, and capitalized expenses related to indebtedness. 

Exhibit 12 

</EX-12>

<EX-21>
 5
 mar-q42015xexx21.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 

Marriott International, Inc.  
   CbM  means  Courtyard by Marriott  /  RI  means  Residence Inn  /  RIbM  means  Residence Inn by Marriott  /  FibM  means  Fairfield Inn by Marriott  / "MVCI" means "Marriott Vacation Club International" / "HMVC" means "Horizons by Marriott Vacation Club" 
    
  Foreign Subsidiaries - Country of Incorporation 
                 Entity Name 
    Country 
      Aberdeen Hotel Limited 
    Jersey, Channel Isla 
      ACHM Gerenciamento Internacional de Hoteis do Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      ACHM Global Hospitality Licensing S. r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      ACHM International Management Company (French Branch) 
    France 
      ACHM International Management Company S.a.r.l. (Panama Branch) 
    Panama 
      ACHM International Management Company S. r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      ACHM Spain Management S.L. 
    Spain 
      Adamar International Lodging, Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Adquisiciones Cancun-Vallarta S. de R.L. de C.V. - (Joint Venture) 
    Mexico 
      Amazonas H.O.T. S.A. (Joint Venture) 
    Ecuador 
      AP Arabella (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      AP Mount Grace (Pty) Limited 
    South Africa 
      BCN Hotel Management Company, S.L. 
    Spain 
      Berlin Marriott Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Germany 
      Branch of the private limited liability company "Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V." 
    Russia 
      Bulgari Hotels and Resorts Milano, S.r.l. 
    Italy 
      Business Tourism Company LLC - (Joint Venture) 
    Jordan 
      Cheshunt Hotel Operating Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Cologne MH Operating Company GmbH 
    Germany 
      Crest Management Services, Limited 
    Bermuda 
      Delta Hotels Services Limited 
    Canada 
      Dominican Hotels (B.V.I.) Ltd. 
    Virgin Islands - BR 
      Elcrisa, S.A. de C.V. - (Joint Venture) 
    Mexico 
      ENA Hotel Holding Company Pvt Ltd 
    Maldives 
      Frankfurt Marriott Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Germany 
      Frankfurt RH Operating Company GmbH 
    Germany 
      GH Hotel Operating Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Global Hospitality Licensing S.  r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Graz Marriott Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Austria 
      Guangzhou Gingerroot Information Technology Co.. Ltd 
    China 
      Hamburg Marriott Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Germany 
      Heidelberg Marriott Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Germany 
      Hoteles de Chile S.A. (Joint Venture) 
    Chile 
      International Hotel Licensing Company S.  r.l. Luxembourg, Zurich Branch 
    Switzerland 
      Leipzig Marriott Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Germany 
      Limited Liability Company "CYBM Voznesenkiy Hotel Leasing" 
    Russia 
      Limited Liability Company "Renaissance St. Petersburg Hotel Leasing" 
    Russia 
      Limited Liability Company "St. Petersburg CY Hotel Leasing" 
    Russia 
      Lux International Hotels N.V. 
    Curacao 
      Luxury China Hotels Limited 
    Hong Kong 

Exhibit 21 

Luxury China Hotels Limited (China Registration) 
    China 
      Luxury Holding of Luxembourg S. r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Luxury Hotel Leasing South Africa (Pty) Ltd (f/k/a PH Hunters Rest (Pty) Ltd) 
    South Africa 
      Luxury Hotel Management of Bolivia 
    Bolivia 
      Luxury Hotel Management of Czech Republic s.r.o. 
    Czech Republic 
      Luxury Hotel Management of Romania S.R.L. 
    Romania 
      Luxury Hotels   Resorts (Thailand) Limited 
    Thailand 
      Luxury Hotels (Barbados) Limited 
    Barbados 
      Luxury Hotels (China) International Management of Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Luxury Hotels Cape Town (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Luxury Hotels Design   Construction Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Luxury Hotels International (Gabon) SARL 
    Gabon 
      Luxury Hotels International Company of Jamaica Limited 
    Jamaica 
      Luxury Hotels International Lodging Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Luxury Hotels International Lodging Ltd. (Cayman Islands Branch) 
    Cayman Islands 
      Luxury Hotels International Managemenmt Company B.V. (Ulyanovsk, Russia Branch) 
    Russia 
      Luxury Hotels International Management (Oman) LLC 
    Oman 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Austria GmbH 
    Austria 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Belgium SPRL 
    Belgium 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. (Azerbaijan Branch) 
    Azerbaijan 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. (Egypt Branch), formerly known as Marriott Hotels International (Egypt) B.V. 
    Egypt 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. (El Salvador Branch) 
    El Salvador 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. (Libya Branch) 
    Libya 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. (Malaysia Branch) 
    Malaysia 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. (Novosibirsk, Russian branch) 
    Russia 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. (Portuguese Branch) 
    Portugal 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Italy Srl. 
    Italy 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Luxury Hotels International Management of Aruba N.V., formerly known as Marriott Aruba N.V. 
    Aruba 
      Luxury Hotels International Management of Saudi Arabia Limited 
    Saudi Arabia 
      Luxury Hotels International Management St. Kitts Limited 
    Saint Kitts and Nevi 
      Luxury Hotels International Management Switzerland GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Luxury Hotels International of Canada, ULC 
    Canada 
      Luxury Hotels International of France SAS 
    France 
      Luxury Hotels International of Hong Kong Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Luxury Hotels International of Hong Kong Limited (China Registration) 
    China 
      Luxury Hotels International of Japan, Inc. 
    Japan 
      Luxury Hotels International of Puerto Rico, Inc. 
    Puerto Rico 
      Luxury Hotels International of Spain S.L.U. 
    Spain 
      Luxury Hotels International OR Tambo (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Luxury Hotels International Sales of Israel Ltd. 
    Israel 
      Luxury Hotels International Saudi Arabia Limited 
    Saudi Arabia 
      Luxury Hotels International South Africa (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Luxury Hotels Irish Holding Company Limited, formerly known as MVCI Irish Holding Company Limited 
    Ireland 

Exhibit 21 

Luxury Hotels Management (BVI) Limited 
    Virgin Islands - BR 
      Luxury Hotels Management (BVI) Limited (Guyana Branch) 
    Guyana 
      Luxury Hotels Management (BVI) Limited (Haiti Branch) 
    Haiti 
      Luxury Hotels Management (BVI) Limited Ogranak Beograd 
    Serbia, Republic of 
      Luxury Hotels Management (Ghana) Limited 
    Ghana 
      Luxury Hotels of Costa Rica Management, S.R.L. 
    Costa Rica 
      Luxury Hotels of Turks   Caicos Ltd 
    Turks and Caicos Isl 
      Luxury Hotels Poland sp. z o.o. 
    Poland 
      Luxury Hotels Uluslararasi Otel Isletmeciligi Limited Sirketi 
    Turkey 
      Luxury International Holdings of Canada, ULC 
    Canada 
      Luxury International Management Nigeria Limited 
    Nigeria 
      LUXURY MANAGEMENT COMPANY MACEDONIA DOOEL Skopje 
    Macedonia 
      Luxury Reservations Limited 
    Ireland 
      Luxury Singapore Holding Company Pte. Ltd 
    Singapore 
      Luxury Swiss Management Company GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Luxury Swiss Management Company GmbH (Morocco Branch) 
    Morocco 
      Luxury Swiss Management Company GmbH, Ethiopia International Contracting Office 
    Ethiopia 
      Luxury Switzerland Holding Company GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      LuxuryHotels International of Ecuador Cia. Ltda. 
    Ecuador 
      Malta Regional Hospitality Licensing Limited 
    Malta 
      Mar Hoteis de Sao Paulo Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Marriott (Schweiz) GmbH 
    Switzerland 
      Marriott Argentina Licensing Company S.A. 
    Argentina 
      Marriott Cayman Islands Licensing Company I, Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Marriott Cayman Islands Licensing Company II, Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Marriott Cayman Islands Licensing Company III, Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Marriott Cayman Islands Licensing Company IV, Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Marriott Cayman Islands Licensing Company VI, Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Marriott Cayman Islands Licensing Company VIII, Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Marriott Cayman Islands Licensing Company X, Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Marriott Chile Licensing Company Limitada 
    Chile 
      Marriott Chile S.A. 
    Chile 
      Marriott Curacao N.V. 
    Curacao 
      Marriott De Honduras, Sociedad de Responsabilidad Limitada 
    Honduras 
      Marriott Ecuador Licensing Company MLC S.A. 
    Ecuador 
      Marriott European Holdings Limited - (Joint Venture) 
    Jersey, Channel Isla 
      Marriott European Hotel Operating Company Limited - (Joint Venture) 
    United Kingdom 
      Marriott France Group Companies SAS 
    France 
      Marriott Hotel Holding GmbH 
    Germany 
      Marriott Hotel Management Company (Virgin Islands), Inc. 
    Virgin Islands - US 
      Marriott Hotel Services Berlin GmbH 
    Germany 
      Marriott Hotel-Betriebsgesellschaft, m.b.H 
    Austria 
      Marriott Hotelmanagement Cologne GmbH 
    Germany 
      Marriott Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Germany 
      Marriott Hotels and Catering (Holdings) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Marriott Hotels Denmark A/S 
    Denmark 

Exhibit 21 

Marriott Hotels Hellas, S.A. 
    Greece 
      Marriott Hotels India Private Limited 
    India 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (Armenia Branch) 
    Armenia 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (Caracas, Venezuela Branch) 
    Venezuela 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (China Registration) 
    China 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (Dominican Republic Branch) 
    Dominican Republic 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (Egypt Branch) 
    Egypt 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (Jordan Branch) 
    Jordan 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (Portugal Branch) 
    Portugal 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (Seoul MEA Branch) 
    South Korea 
      Marriott Hotels International B.V. (Seoul, South Korea Branch) 
    South Korea 
      Marriott Hotels International Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Marriott Hotels International Limited (Belgium Branch) 
    Belgium 
      Marriott Hotels International Limited (French Branch - Liasion Office) 
    France 
      Marriott Hotels International Limited (Representative Office) 
    Spain 
      Marriott Hotels Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Marriott Hotels Management France SAS 
    France 
      Marriott Hotels of Amsterdam, B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Marriott Hotels, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      Marriott Hurghada Management, Inc. (Egypt Branch) 
    Egypt 
      Marriott International Design   Construction Services, Inc. (India Registration) 
    India 
      Marriott International Design   Construction Services, Inc. (UK Establishment) 
    United Kingdom 
      Marriott International Finance Company B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Marriott International Holding Company S. r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Marriott International Hotels, Inc. (Argentina Branch) 
    Argentina 
      Marriott International Hotels, Inc. (Ecuador Branch) 
    Ecuador 
      Marriott International Hotels, Inc. (India Registration) 
    India 
      Marriott International Hotels, Inc. (Lebanon Branch) 
    Lebanon 
      Marriott International Hotels, Inc. (Malaysia Branch) 
    Malaysia 
      Marriott International Hotels, Inc. (Philippine Branch) 
    Philippines 
      Marriott International Hotels, Inc. Maryland USA Sucursala Bucuresti Romania (Romanian Branch) 
    Romania 
      Marriott International Licensing Company B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Marriott International Lodging N.V. 
    Curacao 
      Marriott International Management Company B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Marriott International Management Company B.V. (Australian Branch) 
    Australia 
      Marriott International Management Company B.V. (Seoul Branch) 
    South Korea 
      Marriott International Management Company B.V., Dongdaemoon Branch 
    South Korea 
      Marriott International Management Company B.V., Seongnam Branch 
    South Korea 
      Marriott International Management Company BV (China Registration) 
    China 
      Marriott International Services, Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Marriott International Services, Ltd. (Panama Branch) 
    Panama 
      Marriott International, Inc. (India Registration) 
    India 
      Marriott Inversiones y Servicios Limitada 
    Chile 
      Marriott Jamaica Licensing Company Limited 
    Jamaica 
      Marriott Novy Arbat Hotel Leasing 
    Russia 

Exhibit 21 

Marriott Peru Licensing Company SAC 
    Peru 
      Marriott Peru S.A.C. 
    Peru 
      Marriott Properties (International) Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      Marriott RHG Acquisition S. r.l. 
    Luxembourg 
      Marriott RHG Acquisition SARL 
    Netherlands 
      Marriott Sharm El Sheikh Management (Egypt Branch) 
    Egypt 
      Marriott Switzerland Licensing Company II S.ar.l 
    Switzerland 
      Marriott Switzerland Licensing Company S.ar.l 
    Switzerland 
      Marriott Switzerland Licensing Company S.ar.l (St. Kitts   Nevis branch) 
    Saint Kitts and Nevi 
      Marriott Trinidad   Tobago Limited 
    Trinidad and Tobago 
      Marriott UK Group Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Marriott UK Management Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Marriott V A Hotel Operating Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Marriott Worldwide Corporation (India Registration) 
    India 
      Marriott Worldwide Corporation (Jordan Branch) 
    Jordan 
      Munich CY Schwanthaler Operating Company GmbH 
    Germany 
      OOO CY Nizhny Novgorod Hotel Leasing 
    Russia 
      Operadora Marriott, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      P.T. Luxury Hotels International Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      P.T. Marriott International Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      P.T. Ritz-Carlton Indonesia 
    Indonesia 
      Paris St. Denis Pleyel Real Estate Company SAS 
    France 
      Permanent Establishment of Luxury Hotels International Management Company B.V. 
    Ukraine 
      PH Edward (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      PH F and I Cape Town (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      PH Marine (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      PH Richards Bay (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      PH Roodepoort (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      PH Victoria Junction (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Plan One (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Polserv, S.A. de C.V. - (Joint Venture) 
    Mexico 
      Porto Bello Cove Hotel Corporation (Joint Venture) 
    Philippines 
      Procurement International (Pty) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Protea Hotels (International) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Protea Hotels and Inns (Pty) Limited 
    South Africa 
      Protea Hotels Empowerment Consortium (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Protea Hotels Empowerment Initiative (Pty) Ltd 
    South Africa 
      Ramasia International Limited 
    Virgin Islands - BR 
      Ramcap SAS 
    France 
      RC Hotel and Resort JV Holdings (BVI) Company Limited 
    Virgin Islands - BR 
      RC Hotel Holding Company Limited 
    Virgin Islands - BR 
      RC Hotel Holding Company Limited (Cayman Islands Branch) 
    Cayman Islands 
      RC Rose Holding Company Limited 
    Virgin Islands - BR 
      RC Rose Island Hotel Company Limited 
    Bahamas 
      Renaissance do Brasil Hoteleria Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Renaissance do Brasil Hoteleria Ltda. (Haddock Office Jardins, Alameda Santos, 2326 CEP 01418-200, Sao Paulo) - Brazil Branch 
    Brazil 

Exhibit 21 

Renaissance do Brasil Hoteleria Ltda. (Recife Branch) 
    Brazil 
      Renaissance do Brasil Hoteleria Ltda. (Sao Paulo Branch) 
    Brazil 
      Renaissance Dusseldorf Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Germany 
      Renaissance Hamburg Hotelmanagement GmbH 
    Germany 
      Renaissance Hotels International B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Renaissance Hotels International B.V. (Kazakhstan Branch) 
    Kazakhstan 
      Renaissance Hotels International BV (China Registration) 
    China 
      Renaissance Hotels International Corporation Limited 
    Virgin Islands - BR 
      Renaissance Hotels International Corporation Limited (Malaysia Branch) 
    Malaysia 
      Renaissance Hotels International Corporation Limited (Philippine Branch) 
    Philippines 
      Renaissance Hotels International Management Belgium SPRL 
    Belgium 
      Renaissance Hotels Marketing Services Limited 
    Virgin Islands - BR 
      Renaissance International Lodging Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      Renaissance International Lodging N.V. 
    Curacao 
      Renaissance International Management Company B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Renaissance International Management Company BV (China Registration) 
    China 
      Renaissance Le Parc SAS 
    France 
      Renaissance Manchester Hotel Operating Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Renaissance Services B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      Renaissance Services B.V. (Bahrain Representative Office) 
    Bahrain 
      Renaissance Services B.V. (Dubai Branch) 
    United Arab Emirates 
      Renaissance Services B.V. (Malaysia Branch) 
    Malaysia 
      Renaissance Services B.V. (Representative Office in Egypt) 
    Egypt 
      Renaissance Services B.V. (South Korea Branch - Liaison Office) 
    South Korea 
      Renaissance Special Purposes B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      RHG Holding N.V. 
    Curacao 
      RHIL Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      RHIL Limited 
    China 
      Rio Hotel Brasil Empreendimentos Imobili rios Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Roissy CYBM SAS 
    France 
      Ronevsorg Hotel Operating Company Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      SAMHI JV Business Hotels Private Limited 
    India 
      Shanghai Gingerroot Hotel Management Co., Ltd 
    China 
      Shanghai Gingerroot Hotel Management Co., Ltd., Beijing Branch 
    China 
      Shanghai Gingerroot Hotel Management Co., Ltd., Guangzhou Branch 
    China 
      Stuttgart Sindelfingen Hotel Management GmbH 
    Germany 
      The R.C. Management Company of Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company 
    Germany 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company B.V. (Russian Branch) 
    Russia 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company B.V. (Seoul, South Korea Branch) 
    South Korea 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company Ltd. - (Anguilla Branch) 
    Anguilla 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company N.V. 
    Curacao 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of Canada Limited 
    Canada 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of Chile S.A. 
    Chile 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of Egypt S.A.E. 
    Egypt 

Exhibit 21 

The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
    Mexico 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of Singapore PTE LTD. 
    Singapore 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of St. Lucia Limited 
    Saint Lucia 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of the Cayman Islands, Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. (Malaysian Branch) 
    Malaysia 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, Ltd. 
    Bermuda 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, Ltd. (Bahamas Branch) 
    Bahamas 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Management GmbH 
    Germany 
      The Ritz-Carlton International Licensing Company B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      The Ritz-Carlton International Management Company B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      The Ritz-Carlton International Management Company B.V. (China Registration) 
    China 
      The Ritz-Carlton Limited 
    Hong Kong 
      The Ritz-Carlton Property Management Company (Kyoto) Ltd. 
    Japan 
      The Ritz-Carlton Property Management Company (Tokyo), Ltd. 
    Japan 
      The Ritz-Carlton Residential Management Company of Singapore Pte, Limited 
    Singapore 
      Torriam Hotel Operating Company Limited 
    Ireland 
      Torriam International Lodging N.V. 
    Curacao 
      Toulouse Operating Company SAS 
    France 
      Transamerican Hoteles, S.A. 
    Dominican Republic 

Exhibit 21 

Domestic Subsidiaries - State of Incorporation 
                 State: Arizona 

Entity Name 
        
    Camelback Country Club, Inc. (d/b/a Camelback Golf Club) 
        
    Marriott Rewards, LLC 

State: California 

Entity Name 
        
    SJMEC, Inc. 
        
    SJMFB, LLC 

State: Delaware 

Entity Name 
        
    AC Management Company of USA, Inc. 
        
    Aeropuerto Shareholder, Inc. 
        
    Baltimore Marriott Inner Harbor, L.L.C. 
        
    Camelback Properties Inn, Inc. 
        
    Capitol Employment Services, LLC 
        
    CBM Annex, Inc. 
        
    Centerline Georgia Investor LLC 
        
    Charleston Marriott, LLC 
        
    Chicago Hotel Services, LLC 
        
    City Center Annex Tenant Corporation 
        
    Corporate General, Inc. 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
        
    Desert Ridge Resort, LLC 
        
    Detroit CY, LLC. 
        
    Detroit Hotel Services, LLC 
        
    Detroit MHS, LLC 
        
    EDITION Management LLC 
        
    Essex House Condominium Corporation 
        
    Fairfield FMC, LLC 
        
    Franchise System Holdings, Inc. 
        
    Host Restaurants, Inc. 
        
    Hunt Valley Courtyard, Inc. 
        
    LAX Properties, LLC 
        
    LF, South Beach, LLC 
        
    Luxury Finance, LLC 
        
    Luxury Hotels International Design   Construction Services, Inc. 
        
    M.H.S. Realty Sales, LLC 
        
    Marriott Acquisition 2002 Subsidiary, LLC 
        
    Marriott Acquisition 2002, LLC 
        
    Marriott Crystal City Manager, LLC 
        
    Marriott Fifth Avenue, LLC 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 

Exhibit 21 

Marriott Hurghada Management, Inc. 
        
    Marriott International Administrative Services, Inc. 
        
    Marriott International Capital Corporation 
        
    Marriott International Construction Services, Inc. 
        
    Marriott International Design   Construction Services, Inc. 
        
    Marriott International JBS Corporation 
        
    Marriott International Resorts, L. P. 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Magenta Holding Company, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Market Street Hotel, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Mexico City Partnership G.P. 
        
    Marriott Mirage City Management, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Oak Brook Hills Services, LLC 
        
    Marriott P.R. Management Corporation 
        
    Marriott Payroll Services, LLC 
        
    Marriott Ranch Properties, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Rewards Subsidiary, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Rewards, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Senior Holding Co. 
        
    Marriott Sharm El Sheikh Management, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Two Flags Member LLC 
        
    Marriott Two Flags, LP 
        
    Marriott Worldwide Payroll, LLC 
        
    Marriott Worldwide Reservation Services, LLC 
        
    Marriott's Greenbelt Hotel Services, Inc. 
        
    Mars Merger Sub, LLC 
        
    MC Lodging Investment Opportunities, Inc. 
        
    MHS Guam, Inc. 
        
    MHSFR II, LLC 
        
    MHSFR, LLC 
        
    MHSI Hawaii, LLC 
        
    MI CBM Investor LLC 
        
    MI Finance Company 
        
    MI Georgia Credits, LLC 
        
    MI Holding, L. P. 
        
    MI Member, LLC 
        
    MI NY Clock Tower, LLC 
        
    MI Procurement Holdings, LLC 
        
    MI Tenant LLC 
        
    MI TH4 INVESTOR, LLC 
        
    MICC (California), LLC 
        
    MICC SPE I Corp. 
        
    MIF, L.L.C. 
        
    MRC I Funding Corporation 
        
    North Drury Lane Productions, LLC 
        
    RC Marriott II, Inc. 

Exhibit 21 

RC Marriott III, Inc. 
        
    RC Marriott, Inc. 
        
    RC Paradise Valley Development, LLC 
        
    RC-UK, Inc. 
        
    REN Boston Hotel Management LLC 
        
    REN Boston LP 
        
    REN Boston Waterfront Hotel, LLC 
        
    Renaissance Cleveland Hotel, LLC 
        
    Renaissance Cleveland IOSA, LLC 
        
    Renaissance Hollywood Payroll Company, LLC 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Holdings, Inc. 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Operating Company 
        
    Renaissance International, Inc. 
        
    Renaissance Oakbrook Hotel, LLC 
        
    Renaissance St. Louis Grand, LLC 
        
    Renaissance St. Louis Suites, LLC 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
        
    RHG Investments, LLC 
        
    RHOC Consolidation, LLC 
        
    RI BWI Airport, L.L.C. 
        
    Ritz-Carlton (Virgin Islands), Inc. 
        
    SC Orlando, L.L.C. 
        
    Schaumberg/Oakbrook Marriott Hotels, LLC 
        
    Senior Living Limited Partnership 
        
    Seville Acquisition, LLC 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
        
    Square 369 Hotel Associates, LLC 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company of Puerto Rico, Inc. 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton International Construction Services, Inc. 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton International Licensing Company, LLC 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Residences Management Company LLC 
        
    TownePlace Management, LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-1 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-10 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-11 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-12 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-13 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-14 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-2 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-3 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-4 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-5 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-6 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-7 LLC 

Exhibit 21 

WEC 99C-8 LLC 
        
    WEC 99C-9 LLC 

State: Georgia 

Entity Name 
        
    The Dining Room Corporation 

State: Hawaii 

Entity Name 
        
    F. L. Insurance Corporation 
        
    KB Hotel Operator Inc. 
        
    Marquis Insurance Corporation 

State: Kansas 

Entity Name 
        
    Kansas Hospitality Services, Inc. 

State: Maryland 

Entity Name 
        
    Columbia Courtyard, Inc. 
        
    Marriott International Hotels, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Worldwide Corporation 
        
    Mars Merger Sub, Inc. 
        
    MI Fulfillment Services, LLC 
        
    MII Conference Center, Inc. 

State: Nevada 

Entity Name 
        
    MI Hotels of Las Vegas, Inc. 

State: Texas 

Entity Name 
        
    Hospitality International, Inc. 
        
    Marriott Claims Services Corporation 
        
    MHSI Conference Centers of Texas, Inc. 

State: Utah 

Entity Name 
        
    Gambits, A Nonprofit Corporation (Incorporated Club) 

State: West Virginia 

Entity Name 
        
    West Virginia Marriott Hotels, Inc. 

Exhibit 21 

Assumed Names 
                   State: Arizona 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Scottsdale Marriott At McDowell Mountains 
        
    Marriott Rewards, Inc. 
    Marriott Rewards II, Inc. 
        
    MIF, L.L.C. 
    Marriott International Franchising, L.L.C. 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Phoenix Airport-Tempe RI 

State: California 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Novato Marin / Sonoma 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    Fairfield FMC, LLC 
    Fairfield Inn Anaheim Disneyland Resort 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Anaheim Marriott 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Costa Mesa Marriott Suites 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    JW Marriott Desert Springs Resort   Spa 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Los Angeles Airport Marriott 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Newport Beach Marriott Hotel 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    San Jose Marriott 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Santa Clara Marriott Hotel 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Marriott Marquis San Diego Marina 
        
    MIF, L.L.C. 
    Marriott International Franchising, L.L.C. 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC 
    The Lodge at Sonoma Renaissance, Hotel   Spa 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Arcadia Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    La Jolla Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Long Beach Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Manhattan Beach Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Mira Mesa Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Mountain View Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Placentia Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Rancho Bernardo RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn Irvine Spectrum 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn Pleasant Hill Concord 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn San Diego Central 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn San Diego Sorrento Mesa/ Sorrento Valley 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn San Jose Campbell 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn San Ramon 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Sacramento-Natomas Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Torrance Residence Inn 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Ritz Carlton Hotel 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Laguna Niguel 

Exhibit 21 

District Of Columbia 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    JW Marriott on Pennsylvania Avenue 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Operating Company 
    Renaissance Washington DC Hotel 

State: Florida 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott Jupiter Abacoa 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Cafe 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Lobby Lounge 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Orlando Lake Buena Vista in the Marriott Village 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Pool Bar   Grille 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    EDITION Management LLC 
    Basement 
        
    EDITION Management LLC 
    Miami Beach EDITION Hotel 
        
    EDITION Management LLC 
    The Market at Miami Beach EDITION 
        
    EDITION Management LLC 
    The Matador Room 
        
    EDITION Management LLC 
    Tropicale 
        
    Fairfield FMC, LLC 
    Fairfield Inn   Suites Orlando Lake Buena Vista in the Marriott Village 
        
    Fairfield FMC, LLC 
    Fairfield Inn Cafe 
        
    Fairfield FMC, LLC 
    Fairfield Inn Pool Bar   Grille 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    3030 Ocean 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Cafe Waterside 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Champions 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Deco Blue 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Hammock Bay Golf   Country Club 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    IL Terrazzo 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Korals 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Marriott Stanton South Beach 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Miami Airport Marriott 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Riva Restaurant 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    SPA Waterside 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Tampa Airport Marriott Hotel 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    The Club at Marriott's Harbor Beach Resort   Spa 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    The Members Club at Marco 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    The Spa at Marriott's Harbor Beach Resort 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    The Spa Cafe 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Tranquility 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Citron Patisserie 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Citron, An American Brasserie 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Destinations by Marriott 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Fairways Pub 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Hawk's Landing Steakhouse   Grille 

Exhibit 21 

Marriott International, Inc. 
    JW Marriott Orlando Grande 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Primo 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Quench Bar   Grill 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Tampa Marriott Waterside Hotel   Marina 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    The Ritz Carlton Golf Club 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    The Ritz-Carlton Orlando Grande Lakes 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    The Signature Shop 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Vitale Spa Cafe 
        
    Marriott Worldwide Reservation Services, LLC 

Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC 
    Flagler's 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC 
    Renaissance Singer Island Hotel 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC 
    Tampa Renaissance Hotel 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC 
    The Renaissance Tampa International Plaza Hotel 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Boca Raton RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Pensacola RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn Melbourne 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    St. Petersburg Residence Inn 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Springhill Pool Bar   Grille 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Springhill Suites Orlando Lake Buena Vista in the Marriott Village 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Springhill Suites Seasons 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Americana Restaurant 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Bun 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Cantina 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Cero Restaurant 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Cioppino 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    DiLido Beach Club 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Lemonia 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    One L.R. 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Pool Side Grill 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    Rum Bar 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton Golf Resort Naples 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Amelia Island 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Fort Lauderdale 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Key Biscayne 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Key Biscayne Spa 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, South Beach 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Spa at the Ritz-Carlton 
        
    TownePlace Management, LLC 
    Miami Airport West Towneplace Suites 
        
    TownePlace Management, LLC 
    Miami Lakes Towneplace Suites 

State: Georgia 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Atlanta Airport RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Atlanta Alpharetta RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Atlanta Buckhead RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Atlanta Midtown RI 

Exhibit 21 

Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Atlanta Perimeter Mall RI 

State: Hawaii 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Essex House Condominium Corporation 
    Kauai Marriott Resort   Beach Club 
        
    KB Hotel Operator Inc. 
    Kapalua Bay, A Renaissance Resort 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Kuhio Beach Grill 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Moana Terrace 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Kapalua 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Waikiki Beach Marriott Resort   Spa 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Wailea Beach Marriott Resort   Spa 

State: Illinois 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Arlington Heights North 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Arlington Heights South 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Chicago Deerfield 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Chicago Downtown/River North 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Chicago Highland Park 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Chicago Lincolnshire 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Chicago Naperville 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Chicago O'Hare 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Chicago Oakbrook Terrace 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Chicago Waukegan 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Rockford 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Chicago Marriott Downtown Hotel 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Chicago Marriott Oakbrook Hotel 
        
    Marriott Worldwide Reservation Services, LLC 

MIF, L.L.C. 
    Marriott International Franchising, L.L.C. 

State: Iowa 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 

State: Kentucky 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 

State: Louisiana 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC 
    Renaissance Pere Marquette Hotel 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Springhill Suites by Marriott 

Exhibit 21 

State: Maryland 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Bethesda Marriott Hotel 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Washington Gaithersburg Marriott Hotel 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Annapolis RI, 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Bethesda RI 

State: Massachusetts 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Boston Tremont Courtyard 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Boston Stoughton 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Management Company, LLC 
    Renaissance Boston Waterfront Hotel 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Operating Company 
    Renaissance Bedford Hotel 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Boston Tewksbury/Andover RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Boston-Westborough RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Cambridge RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Danvers RI (aka/ Boston-North Shore) 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton Boston Common 

State: Michigan 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Ann Arbor RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Dearborn RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    East Lansing RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Grand Rapids RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Kalamazoo RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Southfield Michigan RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Troy Central RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Troy South RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Warren RI 

State: Minnesota 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Minneapolis Eden Prairie 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    JW Marriott Minneapolis Mall of America 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Eden Prairie RI 

State: Missouri 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Kansas City Airport 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
    Courtyard St Louis Downtown 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Marriott St. Louis Grand 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, St. Louis 

Exhibit 21 

State: Nebraska 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Omaha Central RI 

State: Nevada 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Las Vegas 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Las Vegas Marriott 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Las Vegas Hughes Center 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Las Vegas RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn by Marriott 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    RI Las Vegas Convention Center 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Inspiration Lounge 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Inspiration Tavern 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Lake Las Vegas 

State: New Jersey 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 
        
    CTYD III Corporation 
    Courtyard by Marriott 

State: New Mexico 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Santa Fe RI, Albuquerque RI 

State: New York 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard New York Manhattan/Herald Square 
        
    EDITION Management LLC 
    The New York EDITION 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    JW Marriott Essex House New York 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Long Island Marriott Hotel, 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    New York Marriott Downtown 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    East Syracuse RI 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Springhill Suites New York Midtown Manhattan/Fifth Avenue 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Springhill Suites Syracuse Carrier Circle 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Westchester 

State: North Carolina 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Charlotte North RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Durham RI, Greensboro RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Raleigh RI, 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Winston-Salem RI 
        
    WEC 99C-8 LLC 
    WEC 99C-8 LLC 

Exhibit 21 

State: Ohio 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Blue Ash CbM 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Columbus Worthington 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Dublin CbM 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Toledo CbM 
        
    Marriott International, Inc. 
    Fairfield Inn 
        
    MIF, L.L.C. 
    Marriott International Franchising, L.L.C. 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Akron Residence Inn 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Blue Ash Ribm 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Cincinnati North RibM 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Columbus East RibM 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Columbus North RI 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Dublin Ohio RibM 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Toledo RibM 

State: Pennsylvania 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    MIF, L.L.C. 
    Marriott International Franchising, L.L.C. 

State: Texas 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    Courtyard Dallas Central Expressway 
        
    Courtyard Management Corporation 
    The Campbell Club 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn Dallas Richardson 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn Houston Downtown/Convention Center 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Richardson RI 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Addison Springhill Suites 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Fort Worth University 
        
    TownePlace Management, LLC 
    Houston Clearlake TownePlace Suites 

State: Utah 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Residence Inn by Marriott, LLC 
    Residence Inn Salt Lake City Cottonwood 

State: Virginia 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Marriott's Westfields Conference Center 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Westfield's Golf Club (Fairfax file date) 
        
    Marriott Hotel Services, Inc. 
    Westfield's Marriott 
        
    Renaissance Hotel Operating Company 
    Renaissance Arlington Capital View 
        
    The Ritz-Carlton Hotel Company, L.L.C. 
    The Ritz-Carlton, Tysons Corner 

Exhibit 21 

State: Washington 

Entity Name 
    Assumed Name 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Seattle Downtown Springhill Suites 
        
    SPRINGHILL SMC, LLC 
    Seattle South Renton Springhill 
        
    TownePlace Management, LLC 
    Seattle South Renton TownePlace Suites 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 6
 mar-q42015xexx23.htm
 CONSENT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23 

Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements of Marriott International, Inc.: 
    
  (1) Form S-8 No. 333-202173, and 
  (2) Form S-8 No. 333-161194, 
  (3) Form S-3 ASR No. 333-202172; and 
  (4) Form S-4 No. 333-208684 
    
  of our reports dated   February 18, 2016  , with respect to the consolidated financial statements of Marriott International, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Marriott International, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Marriott International, Inc. for the year ended   December 31, 2015  . 

/s/ Ernst   Young LLP 

McLean, Virginia 
  February 18, 2016    

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 mar-q42015xexx311.htm
 CEO 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1  
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer  
  Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)  
  I, Arne M. Sorenson, certify that:  
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Marriott International, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting, which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

February 18, 2016 
    /s/ Arne M. Sorenson 
        
      Arne M. Sorenson 
    President and 
    Chief Executive Officer 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

Exhibit 31.1  

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 mar-q42015xexx312.htm
 CFO 302 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2  
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer  
  Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a)  
  I, Kathleen K. Oberg, certify that:  
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Marriott International, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting, which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

February 18, 2016 
    /s/ Kathleen K. Oberg 
        
      Kathleen K. Oberg 
    Executive Vice President and 
    Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

Exhibit 31.2 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 9
 mar-q42015xexx32.htm
 SECTION 906 CERTIFICATION

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32  
  Certification  
  Pursuant to Rule 13a-14(b) and Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
  (18 U.S.C. Sections 1350(a) and (b))  
  I, Arne M. Sorenson, President and Chief Executive Officer of Marriott International, Inc. (the  Company ) certify that:  
            (2) 
    the information contained in the Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

February 18, 2016 
    /s/ Arne M. Sorenson 
        
      Arne M. Sorenson 
    President and 
    Chief Executive Officer 
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

I, Kathleen K. Oberg, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of Marriott International, Inc. (the  Company ) certify that:  
            (2) 
    the information contained in the Annual Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

February 18, 2016 
    /s/ Kathleen K. Oberg 
        
      Kathleen K. Oberg 
    Executive Vice President and 
    Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

Exhibit 32  

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 10
 mar-20151231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 mar-20151231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 mar-20151231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 mar-20151231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 mar-20151231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 mar-20151231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

