<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160329_10-K_edgar_data_745732_0000745732-16-000037_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>8502126</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>409270</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>483827</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3128560</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3108783</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1167544</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>59</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>16</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000745732-16-000037.hdr.sgml : 20160329
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160328192945
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000745732-16-000037
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		87
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20160130
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160329
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160328

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			ROSS STORES INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000745732
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-FAMILY CLOTHING STORES [5651]
		IRS NUMBER:				941390387
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14678
		FILM NUMBER:		161533339

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5130 HACIENDA DRIVE
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94568
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9259654400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		5130 HACIENDA DRIVE
		CITY:			DUBLIN
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94568

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000745732-16-000037.txt : 20160329

10-K
 1
 rost-20160130x10k.htm
 10-K

10-K 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  FORM 10-K   

  Commission file number 0-14678 
  Ross Stores, Inc. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Common stock, par value $.01 
      
    Nasdaq Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  Title of each class 
  None 
    
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes     X     No         
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  Yes            No      X    
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.  Yes      X      No              
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).  Yes      X      No           
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.           
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. Large accelerated filer      X      Accelerated filer             Non-accelerated filer             Smaller reporting company           
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes             No      X    
  The aggregate market value of the voting common stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of   August 1, 2015   was   $21,249,450,321  , based on the closing price on that date as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market . Shares of voting stock held by each director and executive officer have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes. 
  The number of shares of Common Stock, with $.01 par value, outstanding on   March 7, 2016   was   401,287,592  . 
  Documents incorporated by reference: 
  Portions of the Proxy Statement for the Registrant's   2016   Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which will be filed on or before   May 30, 2016  , are incorporated herein by reference into Part III.  
    1 

PART I 
    ITEM 1. BUSINESS 
  Ross Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries ( we  or the  Company ) operate two brands of off-price retail apparel and home fashion     stores Ross Dress for Less        ( Ross ) and dd s DISCOUNTS       .  
  Ross is the largest off-price apparel and home fashion chain in the United States, with   1,274   locations in   34 states, the District of Columbia and Guam  , as of   January 30, 2016  . Ross offers first-quality, in-season, name brand and designer apparel, accessories, footwear, and home fashions for the entire family at savings of 20% to 60% off department and specialty store regular prices every day. Ross' target customers are primarily from middle income households.  
  We also operate   172   dd s DISCOUNTS stores in   15 states   as of   January 30, 2016  . dd's DISCOUNTS features more moderately-priced first-quality, in-season, name brand apparel, accessories, footwear, and home fashions for the entire family at savings of 20% to 70% off moderate department and discount store regular prices every day. The typical dd s DISCOUNTS store is located in an established shopping center in a densely populated urban or suburban neighborhood and its target customers typically come from households with more moderate incomes than Ross customers.  
  The merchant, store field, and distribution organizations for Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS are separate and distinct. The two chains share certain other corporate and support services. 
  Both our Ross and dd's DISCOUNTS brands target value-conscious women and men between the ages of 18 and 54. The decisions we make, from merchandising, purchasing, and pricing, to the locations of our stores, are based on these customer profiles. We believe that both brands derive a competitive advantage by offering a wide assortment of product within each of our merchandise categories in organized and easy-to-shop store environments.  
  Our mission is to offer competitive values to our target customers by focusing on the following key strategic objectives: 
      Maintain an appropriate level of recognizable brands, labels, and fashions at strong discounts throughout the store. 
      Meet customer needs on a local basis. 
      Deliver an in-store shopping experience that reflects the expectations of the off-price customer. 
      Manage real estate growth to compete effectively across all our markets. 
  We refer to our fiscal years ended   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014   as fiscal   2015  , fiscal   2014  , and fiscal   2013  , respectively, all of which were 52-week years.  
    
  Merchandising, Purchasing, and Pricing 
    
  We seek to provide our customers with a wide assortment of first-quality, in-season, brand name and designer apparel, accessories, footwear, and home merchandise for the entire family at savings of 20% to 60% below department and specialty store regular prices every day at Ross, and 20% to 70% below moderate department and discount store regular prices at dd s DISCOUNTS. We sell recognizable brand name merchandise that is current and fashionable in each category. New merchandise typically is received from three to six times per week at both Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS stores. Our buyers review their merchandise assortments on a weekly basis, enabling them to respond to selling trends and purchasing opportunities in the market. Our merchandising strategy is reflected in our advertising, which emphasizes a strong value message. Our stores offer a treasure-hunt shopping experience where customers can find great savings every day on a broad assortment of brand name bargains for the family and the home. 
    
  Merchandising.   Our merchandising strategy incorporates a combination of off-price buying techniques to purchase advance-of-season, in-season, and past-season merchandise for both Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS. We believe nationally recognized name brands sold at compelling discounts will continue to be an important determinant of our success. We generally leave the brand name label on the merchandise we sell. 
    
  We have established merchandise assortments that we believe are attractive to our target customers. Although we offer fewer classifications of merchandise than most department stores, we generally offer a large selection within each classification with a wide assortment of vendors, labels, prices, colors, styles, and fabrics within each size or item. Our merchandise offerings include, but are not limited to, apparel (including footwear and accessories), small furniture, home accents, bed and bath, toys, luggage, gourmet food, cookware, watches, and sporting goods. 
    
    2 

Purchasing.   We have a combined network of approximately   8,300   merchandise vendors and manufacturers for both Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS and believe we have adequate sources of first-quality merchandise to meet our requirements. We purchase the vast majority of our merchandise directly from manufacturers, and we have not experienced any difficulty in obtaining sufficient merchandise inventory. 
    
  We believe our ability to effectively execute certain off-price buying strategies is a key factor in our success. Our buyers use a number of methods that enable us to offer our customers brand name and designer merchandise at strong discounts every day relative to department and specialty stores for Ross and moderate department and discount stores for dd s DISCOUNTS. By purchasing later in the merchandise buying cycle than department, specialty, and discount stores, we are able to take advantage of imbalances between retailers  demand for products and manufacturers  supply of those products.  
    
  Unlike most department and specialty stores, we typically do not require that manufacturers provide promotional allowances, co-op advertising allowances, return privileges, split shipments, drop shipments to stores, or delayed deliveries of merchandise. For most orders, only one delivery is made to one of our   six   distribution centers. These flexible requirements further enable our buyers to obtain significant discounts on in-season purchases. 
    
  The majority of the apparel and apparel-related merchandise that we offer in all of our stores is acquired through opportunistic purchases created by manufacturer overruns and canceled orders both during and at the end of a season. These buys are referred to as "close-out" purchases. Close-outs can be shipped to stores in-season, allowing us to get in-season goods into our stores at great values or can be stored as packaway merchandise.  
    
  Packaway merchandise is purchased with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date, which may even be the beginning of the same selling season in the following year. Packaway purchases are an effective method of increasing the percentage of prestige and national brands at competitive savings within our merchandise assortments. Packaway merchandise is mainly fashion basics and, therefore, not usually affected by shifts in fashion trends. 
    
  In fiscal   2015  , we continued our emphasis on this important sourcing strategy in response to compelling opportunities available in the marketplace. Packaway accounted for approximately   47%   and   45%   of total inventories as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively. We believe the strong discounts we are able to offer on packaway merchandise are one of the key drivers of our business results. 
    
  Our primary buying offices are located in New York City and Los Angeles, the nation's two largest apparel markets. These strategic locations allow our buyers to be in the market on a daily basis, sourcing opportunities and negotiating purchases with vendors and manufacturers. These locations also enable our buyers to strengthen vendor relationships a key element to the success of our off-price buying strategies. 
    
  At the end of fiscal   2015  , we had approximately   730   merchants for Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS combined. The Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS buying organizations are separate and distinct, and each includes merchandise management, buyers, and assistant buyers. Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS buyers have on average   eight   years of experience, including merchandising positions with other retailers such as Bloomingdale's, Burlington Stores, Foot Locker, Kohl s, Loehmann s, Lord   Taylor, Macy's, Nordstrom, Saks, and TJX. We expect to continue to make additional targeted investments in our merchant organization to further develop our relationships with an expanding number of manufacturers and vendors. Our ongoing objective is to strengthen our ability to procure the most desirable brands and fashions at competitive discounts. 
    
  The off-price buying strategies utilized by our experienced team of merchants enable us to purchase Ross merchandise at net prices that are lower than prices paid by department and specialty stores, and to purchase dd s DISCOUNTS merchandise at net prices that are lower than prices paid by moderate department and discount stores. 
    
  Pricing.   Our policy is to sell brand name merchandise at Ross that is priced 20% to 60% below most department and specialty store regular prices. At dd s DISCOUNTS, we sell more moderate brand name product and fashions that are priced 20% to 70% below most moderate department and discount store regular prices. Our pricing policy is reflected on the price tag displaying our selling price as well as the comparable value for that item in department and specialty stores for Ross merchandise, or in more moderate department and discount stores for dd s DISCOUNTS merchandise. 
    
    3 

Our pricing strategy at Ross differs from that of a department or specialty store. We purchase our merchandise at lower prices and mark it up less than a department or specialty store. This strategy enables us to offer customers consistently low prices and compelling value. On a weekly basis our buyers review specified departments in our stores for possible markdowns based on the rate of sale as well as at the end of fashion seasons to promote faster turnover of merchandise inventory and to accelerate the flow of fresh product. A similar pricing strategy is in place at dd s DISCOUNTS where prices are compared to those in moderate department and discount stores. 
    
  Stores 
    
  As of   January 30, 2016  , we operated a total of   1,446   stores comprised of   1,274   Ross stores and   172   dd s DISCOUNTS stores. Our stores are located predominantly in community and neighborhood shopping centers in heavily populated urban and suburban areas. Where the size of the market and real estate opportunities permit, we cluster Ross stores to benefit from economies of scale in advertising, distribution, and field management. We do the same for dd s DISCOUNTS stores. 
    
  We believe a key element of our success at both Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS is our organized, attractive, easy-to-shop, in-store environments which allow customers to shop at their own pace. While our stores promote a self-service, treasure hunt shopping experience, the layouts are designed to enhance customer convenience in their merchandise presentation, dressing rooms, checkout, and merchandise return areas. Our store's sales area is based on a prototype single floor design with a racetrack aisle layout. A customer can locate desired departments by signs displayed just below the ceiling of each department. We enable our customers to select among sizes and prices through prominent category and sizing markers. At most stores, shopping carts and/or baskets are available at the entrance for customer convenience. Cash registers are primarily located at store exits for customer ease and efficient staffing. 
    
  We accept a variety of payment methods. We provide refunds on all merchandise (not used, worn, or altered) returned with a receipt within 30 days. Merchandise returns having a receipt older than 30 days are exchanged or refunded with store credit. 
    
  Operating Costs 
    
  Consistent with the other aspects of our business strategy, we strive to keep operating costs as low as possible. Among the factors which have enabled us to do this are: labor costs that are generally lower than full-price department and specialty stores due to a store design that creates a self-service retail format and due to the utilization of labor saving technologies; economies of scale with respect to general and administrative costs resulting from centralized merchandising, marketing, and purchasing decisions; and flexible store layout criteria which facilitate conversion of existing buildings to our formats. 
    
  Information Systems 
    
  We continue to invest in new information systems and technology to provide a platform for growth over the next several years. Recent initiatives include enhancements to our data security, merchandising, distribution, transportation, and store systems. These initiatives support future growth, the execution and achievement of our plans, as well as ongoing stability and compliance.  
    
  Distribution 
    
  We own and operate   six     distribution processing facilities three in California, one in Pennsylvania, and two in South Carolina. We ship all of our merchandise to our stores through these distribution centers, which are large, highly automated, and built to suit our specific off-price business model.  
    
  Currently we own   four   and lease   three   other warehouse facilities for packaway storage. We also use other third-party facilities as needed for storage of packaway inventory. 
    
  We utilize third-party cross dock facilities to distribute merchandise to stores on a regional basis. Shipments are made by contract carriers to the stores three to six times per week depending on location. 
    
  We believe that our distribution centers with their current expansion capabilities will provide adequate processing capacity to support our current store growth. Information on the size and locations of our distribution centers and warehouse facilities is found under  Properties  in Item 2. 
    4 

Advertising 
    
  Advertising for Ross Dress for Less relies primarily on television to communicate the Ross value proposition  savings off the same brands carried at leading department or specialty stores every day. This strategy reflects our belief that television is the most efficient and cost effective medium for communicating our brand position. While television is our primary advertising medium, we continue to utilize additional channels, including social media, to communicate our brand position. Advertising for dd s DISCOUNTS is primarily focused on new store grand openings and local media initiatives. 
    
  Trademarks 
    
  The trademarks for Ross Dress For Less        and dd s DISCOUNTS        have been registered with the United States Patent and Trademark Office. 
    
  Employees 
    
  As of   January 30, 2016  , we had approximately   77,800   total employees, which includes both full and part-time employees. Additionally, we hire temporary employees especially during the peak seasons. Our employees are non-union. Management considers the relationship between the Company and our employees to be good. 
    
  Competition 
    
  We believe the principal competitive factors in the off-price retail apparel and home fashion industry are offering significant discounts on brand name merchandise, offering a well-balanced assortment that appeals to our target customers, and consistently providing store environments that are convenient and easy to shop. To execute this concept, we continue to make strategic investments in our merchandising organization. We also continue to make improvements to our core merchandising system to strengthen our ability to plan, buy, and allocate product based on more local versus regional trends. We believe that we are well-positioned to compete based on each of these factors. 
    
  Nevertheless, the retail apparel market is highly fragmented and competitive. We face a challenging macro-economic and retail environment that creates intense competition for business from department stores, specialty stores, discount stores, warehouse stores, other off-price retailers, and manufacturer-owned outlet stores, many of which are units of large national or regional chains that have substantially greater resources. We also compete to some degree with retailers that sell apparel and home fashions through catalogs or online. The retail apparel and home-related businesses may become even more competitive in the future. 
    
  Available Information 
    
  The internet address for our corporate website is www.rossstores.com. Our Annual Reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, Proxy Statements, and any amendments to those reports are made available free of charge on or through the Investors section of our corporate website promptly after being electronically filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. The information found on our corporate website is not part of this, or any other report or regulatory filing we file with or furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
    
    5 

ITEM 1A. RISK FACTORS 
    
  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal   2015  , and information we provide in our Annual Report to Stockholders, press releases, and other investor communications, including those on our corporate website, may contain forward-looking statements with respect to anticipated future events and our projected growth, financial performance, operations, and competitive position that are subject to risks and uncertainties that could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our prior expectations and projections. Refer to Management s Discussion and Analysis for a more complete identification and discussion of  Forward-Looking Statements.  
    
  Our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and the performance of our common stock may be adversely affected by a number of risk factors. Risks and uncertainties that apply to both Ross and dd's DISCOUNTS include, without limitation, the following: 
    
  Competitive pressures in the apparel and home-related merchandise retailing industry are high. 
  The retail industry is highly competitive and the marketplace is highly fragmented, as many different retailers compete for market share by utilizing a variety of store formats and merchandising strategies.  We expect competition to increase in the future.  There are no significant economic barriers for others to enter our retail sector. We compete with many other local, regional, and national retailers, traditional department stores, upscale mass merchandisers, other off-price retailers, specialty stores, internet and catalog businesses, and other forms of retail commerce, for customers, associates, store locations, and merchandise. Our retail competitors constantly adjust their pricing, business strategies and promotional activity (particularly during holiday periods) in response to changing conditions.  The substantial sales growth in the e-commerce industry within the last decade has also encouraged the entry of many new competitors, new business models, and an increase in competition from established companies looking for ways to create successful online off-price shopping alternatives. Intense pressures from our competitors, our inability to adapt effectively and quickly to a changing competitive landscape, or a failure to effectively execute our off-price model, could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins. 
    
  Unexpected changes in the level of consumer spending on or preferences for apparel and home-related merchandise. 
  Our success depends on our ability to effectively buy and resell merchandise that meets customer demand.  We work on an ongoing basis to identify customer trends and preferences, and to obtain merchandise inventory to meet anticipated customer needs.  It is very challenging to successfully do this well and consistently across our diverse merchandise categories and in the multiple markets in which we operate throughout the United States.  Although our off-price business model provides us certain advantages and could allow us greater flexibility than traditional retailers in adjusting our merchandise mix to ever-changing consumer tastes, our merchandising decisions may still fail to correctly anticipate and match consumer trends and preferences, particularly in our newer geographic markets.  Failure to correctly anticipate and match the trends, preferences, and demands of our customers could adversely affect our business, financial condition, and operating results. 
    
  Unseasonable weather may affect shopping patterns and consumer demand for seasonal apparel and other merchandise. 
  Unseasonable weather and prolonged, extreme temperatures, and events such as storms, affect consumers  buying patterns and willingness to shop, and could adversely affect the demand for merchandise in our stores, particularly in apparel and seasonal merchandise.  Among other things, weather conditions may also affect our ability to deliver our products to our stores or require us to close certain stores temporarily, thereby reducing store traffic. Even if stores are not closed, many customers may decide to avoid going to stores in bad weather. As a result, unseasonable weather in any of our markets could lead to disappointing sales and increase our markdowns, which may negatively affect our sales and margins.  
    6 

We are subject to impacts from the macro-economic environment, financial and credit markets, and geopolitical conditions that affect consumer confidence and consumer disposable income. 
  Consumer spending habits for the merchandise we sell are affected by many factors, including prevailing economic conditions, recession and fears of recession, levels of unemployment, salaries and wage rates, housing costs, energy and fuel costs, income tax rates and the timing of tax refunds, inflation, consumer confidence in future economic conditions, consumer perceptions of personal well-being and security, availability of consumer credit, consumer debt levels, and consumers  disposable income.  Adverse developments in any of these areas could reduce demand for our merchandise, decrease our inventory turnover, cause greater markdowns, and negatively affect our sales and margins.  All of our stores are located in the United States, so we are especially susceptible to changes in the U.S. economy.           
    
  In order to achieve our planned gross margins, we must effectively manage our inventories, markdowns, and inventory shortage. 
  We purchase the majority of our inventory based on our sales plans.  If our sales plans significantly differ from actual demand, we may experience higher inventory levels and need to take markdowns on excess or slow-moving inventory, resulting in decreased profit margins.  We also may have insufficient inventory to meet customer demand, leading to lost sales opportunities.  As a regular part of our business, we purchase  packaway  inventory with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date.  The timing of the release of packaway inventory to our stores varies by merchandise category and by season, but it typically remains in storage less than six months. Packaway inventory is frequently a significant portion of our overall inventory.  If we make packaway purchases that do not meet consumer preferences at the later time of release to our stores, we could have significant inventory markdowns.  Changes in packaway inventory levels could impact our operating cash flow. Although we have various systems to help protect against loss or theft of our inventory, both when in storage and once distributed to our stores, we may have damaged, lost, or stolen inventory (called  shortage ) in higher amounts than we forecast, which would result in write-offs, lost sales, and reduced margins.   
    
  We depend on the market availability, quantity, and quality of attractive brand name merchandise at desirable discounts, and on the ability of our buyers to purchase merchandise to enable us to offer customers a wide assortment of merchandise at competitive prices. 
  Opportunistic buying, lean inventory levels, and frequent inventory turns are critical elements of our off-price business strategy.  And maintaining an overall pricing differential to department and specialty stores is key to our ability to attract customers and sustain our sales and gross margins. Our opportunistic buying places considerable discretion on our merchants, who are in the marketplace continually and who are generally purchasing merchandise for the current or upcoming season.  Our ability to meet or exceed our operating performance targets depends upon the continuous, sufficient availability of high quality merchandise that we can acquire at prices sufficiently below those paid by conventional retailers and that represent a value to our customers. To the extent that certain of our vendors are better able to manage their inventory levels and reduce the amount of their excess inventory, the amount of high quality merchandise available to us could be materially reduced. Shortages or disruptions in the availability to us of high quality merchandise would likely have a material adverse effect on our sales and margins. 
    
  Data security breaches, including cyber-attacks on our transaction processing and computer information systems, could result in theft or unauthorized disclosure of customer, credit card, employee, or other private and valuable information that we handle in the ordinary course of our business.   
  Like other large retailers, we rely on commercially available computer and telecommunications systems to process, transmit, and store payment card and other personal and confidential information, and to provide data security for those transactions.  Some of the key information systems and processes we use to handle payment card transactions and check approvals, and the levels of security technology utilized in payment cards, are controlled by the banking and payment card industry, not by us. Cyber criminals may attempt to penetrate our information systems to misappropriate customer or business information, including but not limited to credit/debit card, personnel, or trade information.  Despite security measures we have in place, our facilities and systems (or those of third-party service providers) may be vulnerable to security breaches, acts of vandalism, computer viruses, misplaced or lost data, programming and/or human errors, or other similar events.  It is also possible that an associate within our Company or a third party we do business with may purposefully or inadvertently cause a security breach involving such information.  The increasing sophistication of cyber criminals and advances in computer capabilities and remote access increases these risks.  A breach of our data security, or our failure or delay in detecting and mitigating a loss of personal or business information, could result in damage to our reputation, loss of customer confidence, violation (or alleged violation) of applicable laws, and expose us to civil claims, litigation, and regulatory action and to unanticipated costs and disruption of our operations.  
    7 

Disruptions in our supply chain or in our information systems could impact our ability to process sales and to deliver product to our stores in a timely and cost-effective manner. 
  Various information systems are critical to our ability to operate and to manage key aspects of our business.  We depend on the integrity and consistent operations of these systems to process transactions in our stores, track inventory flow, manage merchandise allocation and distribution logistics, generate performance and financial reports, and support merchandising decisions. 
    
  We are currently making, and will continue to make, significant technology investments to improve or replace information processes and systems that are key to managing our business. We must monitor and choose the right investments and implement them at the right pace. The risk of system disruption is increased whenever significant system changes are undertaken. Excessive technological change could impact the effectiveness of adoption, and could make it more difficult for us to realize benefits from new technology. Targeting the wrong opportunities, failing to make the best investments, or making an investment commitment significantly above or below our needs could damage our competitive position and adversely impact our business and results of operations. Additionally, the potential problems and interruptions associated with implementing technology system changes could disrupt or reduce the efficiency of our operations in the short term. These initiatives might not provide the anticipated benefits or may provide them on a delayed schedule or at a higher cost. 
    
  Our information systems, including our back-up systems, are subject to damage or interruption from power outages, computer and telecommunications failures, computer viruses, internal or external security breaches, catastrophic events such as severe storms, fires, earthquakes, floods, acts of terrorism, and design or usage errors by our employees or by third parties. If our information systems or our back-up systems are damaged or cease to function properly, we may have to make significant investments to fix or replace them, and we may suffer interruptions in our operations in the interim. Any material interruption in our computer systems could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
    
  A disruption within our logistics or supply chain network could adversely affect our ability to timely and efficiently transport merchandise to our stores or our distribution centers, which could impair our ability to meet customer demand for products and result in lost sales or increased supply chain costs.  Such disruptions may result from: damage or destruction to our distribution centers; weather-related events; natural disasters; trade restrictions; tariffs; third-party strikes, work stoppages or slowdowns; shipping capacity constraints; supply or shipping interruptions or costs; or other factors beyond our control.  Any such disruptions could negatively impact our financial performance or financial condition.   
    
  We need to obtain acceptable new store sites with favorable consumer demographics to achieve our planned growth.   
  Successful growth requires us to find appropriate real estate sites in our targeted market areas.  We compete with other retailers and businesses for acceptable store locations.  For the purpose of identifying locations we rely, in part, on consumer demographics. While we believe consumer demographics are helpful indicators of acceptable store locations, we recognize that this information cannot predict future consumer preferences and buying trends with complete accuracy. Time frames for negotiations and store development vary from location to location and can be subject to unforeseen delays or unexpected cancellations. We may not be able to open new stores or, if opened, operate those stores profitably. Construction and other delays in store openings could have a negative impact on our business and operating results. Additionally, we may not be able to renegotiate our current lease terms which could negatively impact our operating results.  New stores may not achieve the same sales or profit levels as our existing stores, and adding stores to existing markets may adversely affect the sales and profitability of other existing stores.  If we cannot acquire sites on attractive terms, it could limit our ability to grow or adversely affect the economics of our new stores in various markets.   
    
  To achieve growth, we need to expand in existing markets and enter new geographic markets.  
  Our growth strategy is based on successfully expanding our off-price model in current markets and in new geographic regions. There are significant risks associated with our ability to continue to expand our current business and to enter new markets.  Stores we open in new markets may take longer to reach expected sales and profit levels on a consistent basis and may have higher construction, occupancy, advertising, or operating costs than stores we open in existing markets, thereby affecting our overall profitability. New markets may have competitive conditions, consumer tastes and discretionary spending patterns that are more difficult to predict or satisfy than our existing markets. Our limited operating experience and limited brand recognition in new markets may require us to build brand awareness in that  
    8 

market through greater investments in advertising and promotional activity than we originally planned.  We may find it more difficult in new markets to hire, motivate, and retain qualified associates. 
    
  Consumer problems or legal issues involving the quality, safety, or authenticity of products we sell.  
  Various governmental authorities regulate the quality and safety of merchandise we sell.  These laws and regulations frequently change, and the ultimate cost of compliance cannot be precisely estimated. Because of our opportunistic buying strategy, we sometimes obtain merchandise in new categories or from new vendors that we have not dealt with before.  Although our vendor arrangements typically place contractual responsibility on the vendor for resulting liability and we generally rely on our vendors to provide authentic merchandise that matches the stated quality attributes and complies with applicable product safety and other laws, vendor non-compliance with consumer product safety laws may subject us to product recalls, make certain products unsalable, or require us to incur significant compliance costs. 
    
  But regardless of fault, any real or perceived issues with the quality and safety of merchandise, particularly products such as food and children s items, issues with the authenticity of merchandise, or our inability, or that of our vendors, to comply on a timely basis with such laws and regulatory requirements, could adversely affect our reputation, result in lost sales, inventory write-offs, uninsured product liability or other legal claims, penalties or losses, merchandise recalls, and increased costs.   
    
  An adverse outcome in various legal, regulatory, or tax matters could increase our costs. 
  As an ordinary part of our business, we are involved in various legal proceedings, regulatory reviews, tax audits, or other legal matters.  These may include lawsuits, inquiries, demands, and other claims or proceedings by governmental entities and private plaintiffs, including those relating to employment and employee benefits (including classification, employment rights, discrimination, wage and hour, and retaliation), securities, real estate, tort, consumer protection, privacy, product compliance and safety, advertising, comparative pricing, intellectual property, tax, escheat, and whistle-blower claims.  We continue to be involved in a number of employment-related lawsuits, including class actions in California. 
    
  We are subject to federal, state, and local rules and regulations in the United States, and to various international laws, which change from time to time.  These legal requirements collectively affect multiple aspects of our business, including the cost of health care, workforce management and employee benefits, minimum wages, advertising, comparative pricing, import/export, sourcing and manufacturing, data protection, intellectual property, and others.  If we fail to comply (or are alleged not to comply) with any of these requirements, we may be subject to fines, settlements, penalties, or other costs.  We are also subject to the continuous examination of our tax returns and reports by federal, state, and local tax authorities, and these examining authorities may challenge positions we take. 
    
  Significant judgment is required in evaluating and estimating our provision and accruals for both legal claims and for taxes.  Actual results may differ and our costs may exceed the reserves we establish in estimating the probable outcomes. In addition, applicable accounting principles and interpretations may change from time to time, and those changes could have material effects on our reported operating results and financial condition. 
    
  Damage to our corporate reputation or brands could adversely affect our sales and operating results. 
  Our reputation is partially based on perceptions of various subjective qualities and overall integrity.  Any incident that erodes the trust or confidence of our customers or the general public could adversely affect our reputation and business, particularly if the incident results in significant adverse publicity or governmental inquiry.  The use of social media platforms and similar devices, including blogs, social media websites, and other forms of internet-based communications which allow individuals access to a broad audience of consumers and other interested persons, continues to increase. The availability of information on social media platforms is virtually immediate as is its impact. Many social media platforms immediately publish the content their subscribers and participants post, often without filters or checks on accuracy of the content posted. The opportunity for dissemination of information, including inaccurate information, is seemingly limitless and readily available. Information concerning our Company may be posted on such platforms at any time. Information posted may be adverse to our interests or may be inaccurate, each of which could negatively impact sales, diminish customer trust, reduce employee morale and productivity, and lead to difficulties in recruiting and retaining qualified associates.  The harm may be immediate, without affording us an opportunity for redress or correction.    
    
  We must continually attract, train, and retain associates with the retail talent necessary to execute our off-price retail strategies.  
  Like other retailers, we face challenges in recruiting and retaining sufficient talent in our buying organization, management, and other key areas.  Many of our retail store associates are in entry level or part-time positions with  
    9 

historically high rates of turnover.  Our ability to control labor costs is subject to numerous external factors, including prevailing wage rates and health and other insurance costs, as well as the impact of legislation or regulations governing minimum wage or healthcare benefits.  
    
  Any increase in labor costs may adversely impact our profitability or, if we fail to pay such higher wages, may result in increased turnover. Excessive turnover may result in higher costs associated with finding, hiring and training new associates.  If we cannot hire enough qualified associates, or if there is a disruption in the supply of personnel we hire from third-party providers, especially during our peak season, our operations could be negatively impacted. 
    
  Because of the distinctive nature of our off-price model, we must also attract, train, and retain our key associates across the Company, including within our buying organization.  The loss of one or more of our key personnel or the inability to effectively identify a suitable successor for a key role could have a material adverse effect on our business.  There is no assurance that we will be able to attract or retain highly qualified associates in the future, which could have a material adverse effect on our growth, operations, and financial position.   
    
  We must effectively advertise and market our business. 
  Customer traffic and demand for our merchandise is influenced by our advertising and marketing activities, the name recognition and reputation of our brands, and the location of our stores.  Although we use marketing and advertising programs to attract customers to our stores, particularly though television, our competitors may spend more or use different approaches, which could prove to provide them with a competitive advantage.  Our advertising and other promotional programs may not be effective or may be perceived negatively, or could require increased expenditures, which could adversely affect sales or increase costs.  
    
  We are subject to risks associated with importing merchandise from other countries. 
  A portion of the products sold in our stores is sourced from foreign vendors predominantly in Asia (including China).  We also buy product from foreign sources indirectly through domestic vendors. Although our foreign purchases of merchandise are negotiated and paid for in U.S. dollars, decreases in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to foreign currencies could increase the cost of products we purchase from overseas vendors.   
    
  To the extent that our vendors are located overseas or rely on overseas sources for a large portion of their products, any event causing a disruption of imports, including the imposition of import restrictions, war, and acts of terrorism could adversely affect our business. The flow of merchandise from our vendors could also be adversely affected by financial or political instability in any of the countries in which the goods we purchase are manufactured, if the instability affects the production or export of merchandise from those countries. Trade restrictions in the form of tariffs or quotas, or both, applicable to the products we sell could also affect the importation of those products and could increase the cost and reduce the supply of products available to us. 
    
  When we are the importer of record, we may be subject to regulatory or other requirements similar to those applicable to a manufacturer.  These risks and uncertainties include import duties and quotas, compliance with anti-dumping regulations, work stoppages, economic uncertainties and adverse economic conditions (including inflation and recession), foreign government regulations, employment and labor matters, concerns relating to human rights, working conditions, and other issues in factories or countries where merchandise is produced, transparent sourcing and supply chains, exposure for product warranty and intellectual property issues, consumer perceptions of the safety of imported merchandise, wars and fears of war, political unrest, natural disasters, regulations to address climate change, and other trade restrictions. We cannot predict whether any of the countries from which our products are sourced, or in which our products are currently manufactured or may be manufactured in the future, will be subject to trade restrictions imposed by the U.S. or foreign governments or the likelihood, type or effect of any such restrictions. 
    
  We require our vendors to adhere to various conduct, compliance, and other requirements including those relating to environmental, employment and labor, health, safety, and anti-bribery standards. From time to time, our vendors, their contractors, or their subcontractors may not be in compliance with these standards or applicable local laws. Although we have implemented policies and procedures to facilitate our compliance with laws and regulations relating to doing business in foreign markets and importing merchandise, there can be no assurance that suppliers and other third parties with whom we do business will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies. Significant or continuing noncompliance with such standards and laws by one or more vendors could have a negative impact on our reputation, could subject us to claims and liability, and could have an adverse effect on our results of operations. 
    
    10 

We may experience volatility in revenues and earnings.  
  Our business has slower and busier periods based on holiday and back-to-school seasons, weather, and other factors.  Although our off-price business is historically subject to less seasonality than traditional retailers, we may still experience unexpected decreases in sales from time to time, which could result in increased markdowns and reduced margins.  Significant operating expenses, such as rent expense and associate salaries, do not adjust proportionately with our sales.  If sales in a certain period are lower than our plans, we are generally not able to adjust these operating expenses concurrently, which may impact our operating results. 
    
  A natural or man-made disaster in California or in another region where we have a concentration of stores, offices, or a distribution center could harm our business.  
  Our corporate headquarters, Los Angeles buying office,   three   operating distribution centers,   two   warehouses, and approximately   24%   of our stores are located in California.  Natural or other disasters, such as earthquakes and hurricanes, tornadoes, floods, or other extreme weather and climate conditions, or fires, explosions and acts of war or terrorism, or public health issues (such as epidemics), in any of our markets could disrupt our operations or our supply chain, or could shut down, damage, or destroy our stores or distribution facilities. 
    
  To support our continuing operations, our new store and distribution center growth plans, and our stock repurchase program and quarterly dividends, we must maintain sufficient liquidity. 
  We depend upon our operations to generate strong cash flows to support our general operating activities, and to supply capital to finance our operations, make capital expenditures and acquisitions, manage our debt levels, and return value to our stockholders through dividends and stock repurchases.  If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flows from operations to support these activities, our growth plans and our financial performance would be adversely affected. If necessary to support our operations, we could be forced to suspend our stock repurchase program and/or discontinue payment of our quarterly cash dividends.  Any failure to pay dividends or repurchase stock, after we have announced our intention to do so, may negatively impact our reputation and investor confidence in us, and may negatively impact our stock price. 
    
  We have borrowed on occasion to finance some of our activities.  If our access to capital is restricted or our borrowing costs increase, our operations and financial condition could be adversely impacted.  In addition, if we do not properly allocate our capital to maximize returns, our operations, cash flows, and returns to stockholders could be adversely affected. 

ITEM 1B. UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
  Not applicable. 
    
    ITEM 2. PROPERTIES 
  At   January 30, 2016  , we operated a total of   1,446   stores, of which   1,274   were Ross stores in   34 states, the District of Columbia and Guam  , and   172   were dd s DISCOUNTS stores in   15 states  . All stores are leased, with the exception of   three   locations which we own. 
  During fiscal   2015  , we opened   70   new Ross stores and closed   six   existing stores. The average approximate Ross store size is   28,600   square feet. 
  During fiscal   2015  , we opened   20   new dd s DISCOUNTS stores and closed   no   existing stores. The average approximate dd s DISCOUNTS store size is   23,300   square feet. 
  During fiscal   2015  ,   no   one store accounted for more than 1% of our sales. 
  We carry earthquake insurance to help mitigate the risk of financial loss due to an earthquake. 
  Our real estate strategy in   2016   is to primarily open stores in states where we currently operate, to increase our market penetration and reduce overhead and advertising expenses as a percentage of sales in each market. We also expect to continue our store expansion in newer markets in   2016  . Important considerations in evaluating a new store location in both newer and more established markets are the availability and quality of potential sites, demographic characteristics, competition, and population density of the local trade area. In addition, we continue to consider opportunistic real estate acquisitions. 
    11 

The following table summarizes the locations of our stores by state/territory as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  . 

12 

Where possible, we obtain sites in buildings requiring minimal alterations, allowing us to establish stores in new locations in a relatively short period of time at reasonable costs in a given market. At   January 30, 2016  , the majority of our stores had unexpired original lease terms ranging from   three to ten years   with   three to four   renewal options of five years each. The average unexpired original lease term of our leased stores is   five years or 21 years   if renewal options are included. See Note E of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  See additional discussion under  Stores  in Item 1. 
  The following table summarizes the location and approximate sizes of our distribution centers, warehouses, and office locations as of   January 30, 2016  . Square footage information for the distribution centers and warehouses represents total ground floor area of the facility. Square footage information for office space represents total space owned and leased. See additional discussion in Management s Discussion and Analysis. 

See additional discussion under  Distribution  in Item 1. 
    
    13 

ITEM 3. LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
    
  Like many retailers, we have been named in class action lawsuits, primarily in California, alleging violation of wage and hour laws and consumer protection laws. Class action litigation remains pending as of   January 30, 2016  .  
    
  We are also party to various other legal and regulatory proceedings arising in the normal course of business. Actions filed against us may include commercial, product and product safety, customer, intellectual property, and labor and employment-related claims, including lawsuits in which private plaintiffs or governmental agencies allege that we violated federal, state, and/or local laws. Actions against us are in various procedural stages. Many of these proceedings raise factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. 
  We believe that the resolution of our pending class action litigation and other currently pending legal and regulatory proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 
    
    ITEM 4. MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  Not applicable. 
    
  Executive Officers of the Registrant 
  The following sets forth the names and ages of our executive officers, indicating each person's principal occupation or employment during at least the past five years. The term of office is at the discretion of our Board of Directors. 
                         Name 
      
    Age 

Position 
      Michael Balmuth 
      
    65 

Executive Chairman of the Board 
      Barbara Rentler 
      
    58 

Chief Executive Officer 
      Bernie Brautigan 
      
    51 

President, Merchandising, Ross Dress for Less 
      James S. Fassio 
      
    61 

President and Chief Development Officer 
      Brian Morrow 
      
    56 

President and Chief Merchandising Officer, dd's DISCOUNTS 
      Michael O Sullivan 
      
    52 

President and Chief Operating Officer 
      Lisa Panattoni 
      
    53 

President, Merchandising, Ross Dress for Less 
      John G. Call 
      
    57 

Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, and Corporate Secretary 
      Michael J. Hartshorn 
      
    48 

Group Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer and Principal Accounting Officer 

Mr. Balmuth has served as Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors since 2014. From 1996 to 2014, he was Vice Chairman of the Board of Directors and Chief Executive Officer. He also served as President from 2005 to 2009. Previously, Mr. Balmuth was Executive Vice President, Merchandising from 1993 to 1996 and Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager from 1989 to 1993. Before joining Ross, he was Senior Vice President and General Merchandising Manager at Bon March  in Seattle from 1988 to 1989 and Executive Vice President and General Merchandising Manager for Karen Austin Petites from 1986 to 1988. 
    
  Ms. Rentler has served as Chief Executive Officer and a member of the Board of Directors since 2014. From 2009 to 2014, she was President and Chief Merchandising Officer, Ross Dress for Less and Executive Vice President, Merchandising, from 2006 to 2009. She also served at dd s DISCOUNTS as Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer from 2005 to 2006 and Senior Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer from 2004 to 2005. Prior to that, she held various merchandising positions since joining the Company in 1986. 
    
  Mr. Brautigan has served as President, Merchandising, Ross Dress for Less since March 2016 with responsibility for the Ladies and Children s apparel businesses, Shoes, and Accessories. Previously he was Group Executive Vice President, Merchandising, Ross Dress for Less from 2014 to 2016. He was also Executive Vice President of Merchandising at Ross from 2009 to 2014, Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager, from 2006 to 2009, and Group Vice President of Shoes from 2003 to 2006. Prior to Ross, he spent 20 years in various merchandising positions at Macy s East. 
    14 

Mr. Fassio has served as President and Chief Development Officer since 2009. Prior to that, he was Executive Vice President, Property Development, Construction and Store Design from 2005 to 2009 and Senior Vice President, Property Development, Construction and Store Design from 1991 to 2005. He joined the Company in 1988 as Vice President of Real Estate. Prior to joining Ross, Mr. Fassio held various retail and real estate positions with Safeway Stores, Inc. 
    
  Mr. Morrow has served as President and Chief Merchandising Officer, dd s DISCOUNTS since December 2015. Prior to joining Ross, Mr. Morrow served as President, Chief Merchandising Officer of Stein Mart from 2014 to 2015 and Executive Vice President and Chief Merchandising Officer from 2010 to 2014. From 2008 to 2009, he served as Executive Vice President, General Merchandise Manager at Macy s West. He also held roles as Senior Vice President, General Merchandise Manager at Mervyn s in 2008 and Macy s North/Marshall Field s from 2005 to 2008. For approximately 20 years prior to this, Mr. Morrow held various merchandising roles at The May Department Stores Company.  
    
  Mr. O Sullivan has served as President and Chief Operating Officer since 2009 and a member of the Board of Directors since 2014. From 2005 to 2009, he was Executive Vice President and Chief Administrative Officer and Senior Vice President, Strategic Planning and Marketing from 2003 to 2005. Before joining Ross, Mr. O Sullivan was a partner with Bain   Company, providing consulting advice to retail, consumer goods, financial services and private equity clients since 1991. 
    
  Ms. Panattoni has served as President, Merchandising, Ross Dress for Less since 2014 with responsibility for all of the Home businesses, Men s, Lingerie, and Cosmetics. Previously, she was Group Executive Vice President, Merchandising at Ross from 2009 to 2014. She joined the Company in 2005 as Senior Vice President and General Merchandise Manager of Home and was promoted to Executive Vice President later that same year. Prior to joining Ross, Ms. Panattoni was with The TJX Companies, where she served as Senior Vice President of Merchandising and Marketing for HomeGoods from 1998 to 2004 and as Divisional Merchandise Manager of the Marmaxx Home Store from 1994 to 1998. 
    
  Mr. Call has served as Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal, and Corporate Secretary since 2014. From 2012 to 2014, Mr. Call was Group Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer, with additional oversight for Legal and the Corporate Secretary function. From 1997 to 2012, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer and also served as Corporate Secretary from 1997 to 2009. Mr. Call was Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, Secretary and Treasurer of Friedman s from 1993 until 1997. For ten years prior to joining Friedman s, Mr. Call held various positions with Ernst   Young LLP. 
    
  Mr. Hartshorn has served as Group Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer since March 2015.  Previously, he was Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer from 2014 to March 2015, Senior Vice President and Deputy Chief Financial Officer from 2012 to 2014, Group Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from 2011 to 2012, and Vice President, Finance and Treasurer from 2006 to 2011. From 2002 to 2006, he held a number of management roles in the Ross IT and supply chain organizations. He initially joined the Company in 2000 as Director and Assistant Controller. For seven years prior to joining Ross, Mr. Hartshorn held various financial roles at The May Department Stores Company. 
    
    PART II 
    ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  General information.     See the information set forth under the caption "Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited)" under Note K of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 8 of this Annual Report, which is incorporated herein by reference. Our stock is traded on The NASDAQ Global Select Market        under the symbol ROST. There were   841   stockholders of record as of   March 7, 2016   and the closing stock price on that date was   $57.53   per share. 
  Stock dividends.   In March 2015, our Board of Directors declared a two-for-one stock split of the Company's common stock issued in the form of a stock dividend.  Stockholders of record as of April 22, 2015 were issued one additional share of common stock on June 11, 2015 for each share held. All share and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the stock split. 
  Cash dividends.     On   March 1, 2016  , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of   $0.1350   per common share, payable on   March 31, 2016  . Our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of   $0.1175   per common share in February, May, August, and November   2015  , cash dividends of   $0.1000   per common share in February, May, August, and November   2014  , and cash dividends of   $0.0850   per common share in May, August, and November   2013  . 
    15 

Issuer purchases of equity securities.     Information regarding shares of common stock we repurchased during the fourth quarter of fiscal   2015   is as follows: 

We acquired 34,703 shares of treasury stock during the quarter ended January 30, 2016. Treasury stock includes shares acquired from employees for tax withholding purposes related to vesting of restricted stock grants. All remaining shares were repurchased under our publicly announced stock repurchase program. 

In February 2015, our Board of Directors approved a two-year $1.4 billion stock repurchase program for fiscal 2015 and 2016. 
  See Note H of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for equity compensation plan information. The information under Item 12 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K under the caption  Equity compensation plan information  is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Stockholder Return Performance Graph 
  The following information in this Item 5 shall not be deemed filed for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Act of 1934, nor shall it be deemed incorporated by reference in any filing under the Securities Act of 1933. 
  Total stockholder returns for our common stock outperformed the Standard   Poor s ( S P ) 500 Index and the S P Retailing Group over the last five years as set forth in the graph below. The cumulative total return listed below assumed an initial investment of $100 and reinvestment of dividends at each fiscal year end, and measures the performance of this investment as of the last trading day in the month of January for each of the following five years. These measurement dates are based on the historical month-end data available and may vary slightly from our actual fiscal year-end date for each period. Data with respect to returns for the S P indexes is not readily available for periods shorter than one month. The graph is a historical representation of past performance only and is not necessarily indicative of future performance. 
    
    16 

COMPARISON OF 5 YEAR CUMULATIVE TOTAL RETURN 
  Among Ross Stores, Inc., the S P 500 Index, and S P Retailing Group 

17 

ITEM 6. SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
  The following selected financial data is derived from our consolidated financial statements. The data set forth below should be read in conjunction with  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  the section  Forward-Looking Statements  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. 

18 

Selected Financial Data 

19 

ITEM 7. MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
    
    Overview 
    
  Ross Stores, Inc. operates two brands of off-price retail apparel and home fashion stores Ross Dress for Less        ( Ross ) and dd s DISCOUNTS       . Ross is the largest off-price apparel and home fashion chain in the United States with   1,274   locations in   34 states, the District of Columbia and Guam   as of   January 30, 2016  . Ross offers first-quality, in-season, name brand and designer apparel, accessories, footwear, and home fashions for the entire family at savings of 20% to 60% off department and specialty store regular prices every day. We also operate   172   dd s DISCOUNTS  
    20 

stores in   15 states   as of   January 30, 2016   that feature a more moderately-priced assortment of first-quality, in-season, name brand apparel, accessories, footwear, and home fashions for the entire family at savings of 20% to 70% off moderate department and discount store regular prices every day. 
    
  Our primary objective is to pursue and refine our existing off-price strategies to maintain and improve both profitability and financial returns over the long term. In establishing appropriate growth targets for our business, we closely monitor market share trends for the off-price industry and believe our share gains over the past few years were driven mainly by continued focus on value by consumers. Our sales and earnings gains in   2015   continued to benefit from efficient execution of our off-price model throughout all areas of our business. Our merchandise and operational strategies are designed to take advantage of the expanding market share of the off-price industry as well as the ongoing customer demand for name brand fashions for the family and home at compelling discounts every day.  
    
  We refer to our fiscal years ended   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014   as fiscal   2015  , fiscal   2014  , and fiscal   2013  , respectively.  
    
  All share and per share amounts have been adjusted for the two-for-one stock split effective June 11, 2015. 
    
    Results of Operations 
    
  The following table summarizes the financial results for fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  : 

21 

Stores.     Total stores open at the end of fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   were   1,446  ,   1,362  , and   1,276  , respectively. The number of stores at the end of fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   increased by   6%  ,   7%  , and   6%   from the respective prior years. Our expansion strategy is to open additional stores based on market penetration, local demographic characteristics, competition, expected store profitability, and the ability to leverage overhead expenses. We continually evaluate opportunistic real estate acquisitions and opportunities for potential new store locations. We also evaluate our current store locations and determine store closures based on similar criteria. 

Sales.   Sales for fiscal   2015   increased   $0.9 billion  , or   8.1%  , compared to the   prior year   due to the opening of   84   net new stores during   2015   and a   4%   increase in comparable store sales (defined as stores that have been open for more than 14 complete months). Sales for fiscal   2014   increased   $0.8 billion  , or   7.9%  , compared to the prior year due to the opening of   86   net new stores during   2014   and a   3%   increase in sales from comparable stores. 
  Our sales mix is shown below for fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  : 

We intend to address the competitive climate for off-price apparel and home goods by pursuing and refining our existing strategies and by continuing to strengthen our organization, diversify our merchandise mix, and more fully develop our systems to improve regional and local merchandise offerings. Although our strategies and store expansion program contributed to sales gains in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , we cannot be sure that they will result in a continuation of sales growth or in an increase in net earnings. 
    
  Cost of goods sold.   Cost of goods sold in fiscal   2015   increased   $638.9 million   compared to the prior year mainly due to increased sales from the opening of   84   net new stores during the year and a   4%   increase in sales from comparable stores. 
    
  Cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales for fiscal   2015   decreased approximately five basis points from the prior year primarily due to a 45 basis point increase in merchandise gross margin and five basis points of occupancy leverage. This improvement was partially offset by a 35 basis point increase in distribution expenses related to our recent infrastructure investments and higher freight costs of 10 basis points. 
  Cost of goods sold in fiscal   2014   increased   $577.0 million   compared to the prior year mainly due to increased sales from the opening of   86   net new stores during the year and a   3%   increase in sales from comparable stores. 
  Cost of goods sold as a percentage of sales for fiscal   2014   decreased approximately five basis points from the prior year primarily due to a 20 basis point increase in merchandise gross margin.  This improvement was partially offset by a 15 basis point increase in buying costs.  
  We cannot be sure that the gross profit margins realized in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   will continue in future years. 
    22 

Selling, general and administrative expenses.   For fiscal   2015  , selling, general and administrative expenses ( SG A ) increased   $123.4 million   compared to the prior year, mainly due to increased store operating costs reflecting the opening of   84   net new stores and the impact of wage rate increases during the year. SG A as a percentage of sales for fiscal   2015   decreased by approximately five basis points compared to the prior year primarily due to leverage resulting from the   4%   increase in comparable store sales. 
  For fiscal   2014  , SG A increased   $89.0 million   compared to the prior year, mainly due to increased store operating costs reflecting the opening of   86   net new stores during the year. SG A as a percentage of sales for fiscal   2014   decreased by approximately 30 basis points compared to the prior year primarily due to tight expense control. 
  Interest expense (income), net.   In fiscal   2015  , net interest expense increased by   $9.6 million   and rose as a percentage of sales, primarily due to the issuance of our unsecured   3.375%   Senior Notes due   September 2024   in the third quarter of fiscal 2014 and the reduction of capitalized interest. The table below shows the components of interest expense and income for fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  : 

Taxes on earnings.   Our effective tax rates for fiscal   2015  ,   2014   and   2013   were approximately   37%  ,   38%   and   38%  , respectively.  The effective tax rate represents the applicable combined federal and state statutory rates reduced by the federal benefit of state taxes deductible on federal returns. The effective rate is impacted by changes in laws, location of new stores, level of earnings, and the resolution of tax positions with various taxing authorities. We anticipate that our effective tax rate for fiscal   2016   will be between 37% and 38%. 
    
  Net earnings.   Net earnings as a percentage of sales for fiscal   2015   were higher than fiscal   2014   primarily due to both lower cost of goods sold and lower SG A expenses. Net earnings as a percentage of sales for fiscal   2014   were higher compared to fiscal   2013   primarily due to both lower cost of goods sold and lower SG A expenses. 
    
  Earnings per share  . Diluted earnings per share in fiscal   2015   was   $2.51   compared to   $2.21   in the prior year period. The   14%   increase in diluted earnings per share is attributable to an approximate   10%   increase in net earnings and a 4% reduction in weighted average diluted shares outstanding, largely due to the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase program. Diluted earnings per share in fiscal   2014   was   $2.21   compared to   $1.94   in fiscal   2013  . The   14%   increase in diluted earnings per share is attributable to an approximate   10%   increase in net earnings and a 4% reduction in weighted average diluted shares outstanding, largely due to the repurchase of common stock under our stock repurchase program. 
    
    Financial Condition 
    
  Liquidity and Capital Resources 
    
  Our primary sources of funds for our business activities are cash flows from operations and short-term trade credit. Our primary ongoing cash requirements are for merchandise inventory purchases, payroll, rent, taxes, and capital expenditures in connection with new and existing stores, and investments in distribution centers, information systems, and buying and corporate offices. We also use cash to repurchase stock under our stock repurchase program and to pay dividends. 

23 

Operating Activities 
    
  Net cash provided by operating activities was $1,326.2 million, $1,372.8 million, and   $1,022.0 million   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively, and was primarily driven by net earnings excluding non-cash expenses for depreciation and amortization. Our primary source of operating cash flow is the sale of our merchandise inventory. We regularly review the age and condition of our merchandise and are able to maintain current merchandise inventory in our stores through replenishment processes and liquidation of slower-moving merchandise through clearance markdowns. 
    
  The decrease in cash flow from operating activities in fiscal   2015   compared to fiscal   2014   was primarily driven by the changes in packaway inventory levels and the timing of packaway receipts versus last year, partially offset by higher earnings. Changes in packaway inventory levels and the timing of packaway receipts and related payments versus last year resulted in lower accounts payable leverage (defined as accounts payable divided by merchandise inventory) which was   67%  ,   73%  , and   62%   as of   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014  , respectively. Accounts payable leverage at the end of fiscal 2013 was also impacted due to the timing shift of the dividend declaration from January 2014 to February 2014. 
    
  The increase in cash flow from operating activities in   2014   compared to fiscal   2013   was primarily due to higher net earnings and an increase in accounts payable leverage.  
    
  As a regular part of our business, packaway inventory levels will vary over time based on availability of compelling opportunities in the marketplace. Packaway merchandise is purchased with the intent that it will be stored in our warehouses until a later date. The timing of the release of packaway inventory to our stores is principally driven by the product mix and seasonality of the merchandise, and its relation to our store merchandise assortment plans. As such, the aging of packaway varies by merchandise category and seasonality of purchase, but typically packaway remains in storage less than six months. We expect to continue to take advantage of packaway inventory opportunities to maximize our ability to deliver bargains to our customers. 
    
  Changes in packaway inventory levels impact our operating cash flow. At the end of fiscal   2015  , packaway inventory was   47%   of total inventory compared to   45%   and   49%   at the end of fiscal   2014   and   2013  , respectively.  
    
  Investing Activities 
    
  Net cash used in investing activities was   $362.5 million  ,   $639.0 million  , and   $563.8 million   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. The decrease in cash used for investing activities in fiscal   2015   compared to fiscal   2014   and fiscal   2013   was primarily due to a reduction in our capital expenditures. 
    
  In fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , our capital expenditures were   $367.0 million  ,   $646.7 million  , and   $550.5 million  , respectively. Our capital expenditures include costs to build or expand distribution centers, open new stores and improve existing stores, and for various other expenditures related to our information technology systems, buying, and corporate offices. The decrease in capital expenditures in fiscal   2015   compared to fiscal   2014   was primarily due to the purchase in September 2014 of our New York buying office and the construction of two distribution centers. We opened   90  ,   95  , and   88   new stores in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively.  
    
  Our capital expenditures over the last three years are set forth in the table below: 

We are forecasting approximately   $425 million   in capital expenditures for fiscal year   2016   to fund costs for fixtures and leasehold improvements to open new Ross and dd s DISCOUNTS stores, the upgrade or relocation of existing  
    24 

stores, investments in information technology systems, and for various other expenditures related to our stores, distribution centers, buying and corporate offices. We expect to primarily fund capital expenditures with available cash and cash flows from operations.  
    
  We had purchases of investments in fiscal   2015   and   2013   of   $0.7 million   and   $12.0 million  , respectively.  We had no purchases of investments in fiscal   2014  . We had proceeds from investments of   $1.1 million  ,   $12.0 million  , and   $1.6 million   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. 
    
  Financing Activities 
    
  Net cash used in financing activities was   $898.7 million  ,   $460.4 million  , and   $681.8 million   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. During fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , our liquidity and capital requirements were provided by available cash and cash flows from operations and in fiscal 2014, the issuance of our unsecured 3.375% Senior Notes due September 2024 ("2024 Notes"). 
    
  In September 2014, we issued $250 million of unsecured 2024 Notes and used most of the net proceeds of approximately $246 million to purchase our New York buying office building for $222 million and the remaining $24 million for other general corporate purposes. 
    
  We repurchased   13.7 million  ,   14.8 million  , and   16.4 million   shares of common stock for aggregate purchase prices of approximately   $700 million  ,   $550 million  , and   $550 million   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. We also acquired   1.3 million  ,   1.1 million  , and   1.0 million   shares in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively, of treasury stock from our employee stock equity compensation programs, for aggregate purchase prices of approximately   $68.9 million  ,   $39.0 million  , and   $29.9 million   during fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. In February 2015, our Board of Directors approved a two-year $1.4 billion stock repurchase program for fiscal 2015 and 2016.  
  On   March 1, 2016  , our Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of   $0.1350   per common share, payable on   March 31, 2016  . Our Board of Directors declared cash dividends of   $0.1175   per common share in February, May, August, and November   2015  , cash dividends of   $0.1000   per common share in February, May, August, and November   2014  , and cash dividends of   $0.0850   per common share in May, August, and November   2013  .  
  During fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , we paid dividends of   $192.3 million  ,   $168.5 million  , and   $147.9 million  , respectively. 
    
  Short-term trade credit represents a significant source of financing for merchandise inventory. Trade credit arises from customary payment terms and trade practices with our vendors. We regularly review the adequacy of credit available to us from all sources and expect to be able to maintain adequate trade credit, bank lines, and other credit sources to meet our capital and liquidity requirements, including lease payment obligations, in   2016  . 
    
  Our existing $600 million unsecured revolving credit facility expires in June 2017 and contains a $300 million sublimit for issuance of standby letters of credit. Interest on this facility is based on LIBOR plus an applicable margin (currently 100 basis points) and is payable quarterly and upon maturity. As of   January 30, 2016  , we had no borrowings or standby letters of credit outstanding on this facility and our $600 million credit facility remains in place and available. We plan to renew our revolving credit facility in 2016. 
    
  We estimate that existing cash balances, cash flows from operations, bank credit lines, and trade credit are adequate to meet our operating cash needs and to fund our planned capital investments, common stock repurchases, and quarterly dividend payments for at least the next twelve months. 
    
    25 

Contractual Obligations 
    
  The table below presents our significant contractual obligations as of   January 30, 2016  : 

1   We have a   $94.2 million   liability for unrecognized tax benefits that is included in Other long-term liabilities on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. This liability is excluded from the schedule above as the timing of payments cannot be reasonably estimated. 
    
   Our New York buying office building is subject to a 99-year ground lease. 
    
  Senior notes.   In September 2014, we issued unsecured 2024 Notes with an aggregate principal amount of $250 million. The 2024 Notes were issued at a price equal to 99.329% of the principal amount. Interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually beginning March 2015.  
    
  As of   January 30, 2016  , we also had outstanding two series of unsecured senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of $150 million, held by various institutional investors. The Series A notes totaling $85 million are due in December 2018 and bear interest at a rate of 6.38%. The Series B notes totaling $65 million are due in December 2021 and bear interest at a rate of 6.53%. Borrowings under these senior notes are subject to certain financial covenants, including interest coverage and other financial ratios. As of   January 30, 2016  , we were in compliance with those covenants.  
    
  The 2024 Notes, Series A, and Series B senior notes are all subject to prepayment penalties for early payment of principal.  
    
    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
    
  Operating leases  . We currently lease all but three of our store locations, three warehouse facilities, and a buying office. In addition, we have a ground lease related to our New York buying office. Except for certain leasehold improvements and equipment, these leased locations do not represent long-term capital investments. 
    
  Two of the warehouses are in Carlisle, Pennsylvania with leases expiring in   2016   and   2017  . The third warehouse is in Fort Mill, South Carolina, with a lease expiring in 2019. The leases for the two Carlisle, Pennsylvania warehouses contain renewal provisions.  
    
  We currently lease approximately   68,000   square feet of office space for our Los Angeles buying office. The lease term for this facility expires in   2017   and contains renewal provisions. 
    
  Purchase obligations.   As of   January 30, 2016   we had purchase obligations of approximately   $1,721 million  . These purchase obligations primarily consist of merchandise inventory purchase orders, commitments related to construction projects, store fixtures and supplies, and information technology service, transportation, and maintenance contracts.  
    
  Standby letters of credit and collateral trust.   We use standby letters of credit outside of our revolving credit facility in addition to a funded trust to collateralize our insurance obligations. As of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , we had   $15.3 million   and   $19.5 million  , respectively, in standby letters of credit outstanding and   $56.4 million   and   $56.3 million  , respectively, in a collateral trust. The standby letters of credit are collateralized by restricted cash and the collateral trust consists of restricted cash, cash equivalents, and investments. 
    
  Trade letters of credit.   We had   $32.0 million   and   $32.8 million   in trade letters of credit outstanding at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively. 
    
    26 

Effects of inflation or deflation.   We do not consider the effects of inflation or deflation to be material to our financial position and results of operations. 
    
    Other 
    
  Critical Accounting Policies 
  The preparation of our consolidated financial statements requires our management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts. These estimates and assumptions are evaluated on an ongoing basis and are based on historical experience and on various other factors that management believes to be reasonable. We believe the following critical accounting policies describe the more significant judgments and estimates used in the preparation of our consolidated financial statements and are not intended to be a comprehensive list of all of our accounting policies.  
  In many cases, the accounting treatment of a particular transaction is specifically dictated by Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ), with no need for management s judgment in their application. There are also areas in which management s judgment in selecting one alternative accounting principle over another would not produce a materially different result. See our audited consolidated financial statements and notes thereto under Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, which contain accounting policies and other disclosures required by GAAP. 
  Merchandise inventory.     Our merchandise inventory is stated at the lower of cost (determined using a weighted average basis) or net realizable value. We purchase inventory that can either be shipped to stores or processed as packaway merchandise with the intent that it will be warehoused and released to stores at a later date. The timing of the release of packaway inventory to our stores is principally driven by the product mix and seasonality of the merchandise, and its relation to the Company s store merchandise assortment plans. As such, the aging of packaway varies by merchandise category and seasonality of purchase, but typically packaway remains in storage less than six months. Packaway inventory accounted for approximately   47%  ,   45%  , and   49%   of total inventories as of   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014  , respectively. Merchandise inventory includes acquisition, processing, and storage costs related to packaway inventory. 
  Included in the carrying value of our merchandise inventory is a provision for shortage. The shortage reserve is based on historical shortage rates as evaluated through our annual physical merchandise inventory counts and cycle counts. If actual market conditions, markdowns, or shortage are less favorable than those projected by us, or if sales of the merchandise inventory are more difficult than anticipated, additional merchandise inventory write-downs may be required. 
  Long-lived assets.     We review for a long-lived asset impairment charge when events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of a long-lived asset may not be recoverable based on estimated future cash flows. If analysis of the undiscounted cash flow of an asset group was less than the carrying value of the asset group, an impairment loss would be recognized to write the asset group down to its fair value. If our actual results differ materially from projected results, an impairment charge may be required in the future. In the course of performing our annual analysis, we determined that no long-lived asset impairment charge was required for fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , or   2013  . 
  Depreciation and amortization expense.     Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset, typically ranging from three to 12 years for equipment and information systems and 20 to 40 years for land improvements and buildings. The cost of leasehold improvements is amortized over the lesser of the useful life of the asset or the applicable lease term. 
  Lease accounting.     When a lease contains  rent holidays  or requires fixed escalations of the minimum lease payments, we record rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and the difference between the average rental amount charged to expense and the amount payable under the lease is recorded as deferred rent. We begin recording rent expense on the lease possession date. Tenant improvement allowances are included in Other long-term liabilities and are amortized over the lease term. Changes in tenant improvement allowances are included as a component of operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. See Recently issued accounting standards below. 
  Insurance obligations.     We use a combination of insurance and self-insurance for a number of risk management activities, including workers  compensation, general liability, and employee-related health care benefits. Our self-insurance and deductible liability is determined actuarially, based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not reported. Should a greater amount of claims occur compared to what is estimated or the costs of medical care  
    27 

increase beyond what was anticipated, our recorded reserves may not be sufficient and additional charges could be required. 
  Stock-based compensation.     We recognize compensation expense based upon the grant date fair value of all stock-based awards. We use historical data to estimate pre-vesting forfeitures and to recognize stock-based compensation expense. All stock-based compensation awards are expensed over the service and performance periods of the awards. 
  Income taxes.     We account for our uncertain tax positions in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 740. We are required to make assumptions and judgments regarding our income tax exposures. Our policy is to recognize interest and/or penalties related to all tax positions in income tax expense. To the extent that accrued interest and penalties do not ultimately become payable, amounts accrued will be reduced and reflected as a reduction of the overall income tax provision in the period that such determination is made. 
  Recently issued accounting standards.   In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers  .     The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle of the guidance is that a company should recognize revenue when the customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration which the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 is effective for our annual and interim reporting periods beginning in fiscal 2018. We are currently evaluating the effect adoption of this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ASU 2016-02,   Leases (Topic 842).   The guidance requires balance sheet recognition for all leases with lease terms greater than one year including a lease liability, which is a lessee s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. ASU 2016-02 is effective for our annual and interim reporting periods beginning in fiscal 2019. We are currently evaluating the effect adoption of this new guidance will have on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Recently issued and adopted accounting standards.   In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03,   Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs  . The standard amends existing guidance to require the presentation of debt issuance costs in the balance sheet as a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability instead of as an asset. ASU 2015-03 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted. We early adopted ASU 2015-03 retrospectively in our first fiscal quarter ended May 2, 2015. As a result, we reclassified unamortized debt issuance costs of $2.8 million as of January 31, 2015, from Other long-term assets to a reduction in Long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Adoption of this standard did not impact results of operations, retained earnings, or cash flows in the current or previous interim and annual reporting periods.  
    
  In November 2015, the FASB issued  ASU 2015-17,   Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes  , which simplifies the presentation of deferred taxes by requiring deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet. ASU 2015-17 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted.  We early adopted ASU 2015-17 retrospectively, as of January 30, 2016.  As a result, $13.0 million of our deferred tax assets previously presented in current assets have been reclassified to long term deferred tax liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2015. Adoption of this standard did not impact results of operations, retained earnings, or cash flows in the current or previous annual reporting periods.  
    
    Forward-Looking Statements 
    
  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K for fiscal   2015  , and information we provide in our Annual Report to Stockholders, press releases, and other investor communications including those on our corporate website, may contain a number of forward-looking statements regarding, without limitation, planned store growth, new markets, expected sales, projected earnings levels, capital expenditures, and other matters. These forward-looking statements reflect our then current beliefs, projections, and estimates with respect to future events and our projected financial performance, operations, and competitive position. The words  plan,   expect,   target,   anticipate,   estimate,   believe,   forecast,   projected,   guidance,   looking ahead  and similar expressions identify forward-looking statements. 
    
  Future economic and industry trends that could potentially impact revenue, profitability, and growth remain difficult to predict. Our forward-looking statements are subject to risks and uncertainties which could cause our actual results to differ materially from those forward-looking statements and our previous expectations and projections. Refer to Item 1A in this Annual Report on Form 10-K for a more complete discussion of risk factors for Ross and dd's DISCOUNTS. The factors underlying our forecasts are dynamic and subject to change. As a result, any forecasts or forward-looking statements speak only as of the date they are given and do not necessarily reflect our outlook at any other point in time. We disclaim any obligation to update or revise these forward-looking statements. 
    
    ITEM 7A. QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
  We are exposed to market risks, which primarily include changes in interest rates. We do not engage in financial transactions for trading or speculative purposes. 
  We occasionally use forward contracts to hedge against fluctuations in foreign currency prices. We had no outstanding forward contracts as of   January 30, 2016  . 
  Interest that is payable on our revolving credit facility is based on variable interest rates and is, therefore, affected by changes in market interest rates. As of   January 30, 2016  , we had no borrowings outstanding under our revolving credit facility. 
  We have two outstanding series of unsecured notes held by institutional investors: Series A Senior Notes due December 2018 for $85 million accrue interest at 6.38% and Series B Senior Notes due December 2021 for $65 million accrue interest at 6.53%. The amount outstanding under these notes as of   January 30, 2016   was $150 million. We also have unsecured 3.375% Senior Notes due September 2024 with an aggregate principal amount of $250 million. Interest that is payable on our senior notes is based on fixed interest rates and is therefore unaffected by changes in market interest rates.  
  Interest is receivable on our short- and long-term investments. Changes in interest rates may impact interest income recognized in the future, or the fair value of our investment portfolio. 
  A hypothetical 100 basis point increase or decrease in prevailing market interest rates would not have a material impact on our consolidated financial position, results of operations, cash flows, or the fair values of our short- and long-term investments as of and for the year ended   January 30, 2016  . We do not consider the potential losses in future earnings and cash flows from reasonably possible, near-term changes in interest rates to be material. 

28 

ITEM 8. FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
    
    Consolidated Statements of Earnings 

29 

Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 

30 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 

31 

Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity 

32 

Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

33 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
    
    Note A: Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
    
  Business.     Ross Stores, Inc. and its subsidiaries (the  Company ) is an off-price retailer of first-quality, in-season, name brand and designer apparel, accessories, footwear, and home fashions for the entire family. At the end of fiscal   2015  , the Company operated   1,274   Ross Dress for Less        ( Ross ) locations in   34 states, the District of Columbia and Guam  , and   172   dd s DISCOUNTS        stores in   15 states  . The Ross and dd's DISCOUNTS stores are supported by   six   distribution centers. The Company s headquarters, one buying office, three operating distribution centers, two warehouses, and   24%   of its stores are located in California. 
  Segment reporting.     The Company has one reportable segment. The Company s operations include only activities related to off-price retailing in stores throughout the United States. 
  Basis of presentation and fiscal year.     The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of the Company and its subsidiaries, all of which are wholly-owned. Intercompany transactions and accounts have been eliminated. The Company follows the National Retail Federation fiscal calendar and utilizes a 52-53 week fiscal year whereby the fiscal year ends on the Saturday nearest to January 31. The fiscal years ended   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015   and   February 1, 2014   are referred to as fiscal   2015  , fiscal   2014  , and fiscal   2013  , respectively, and were 52-week years.  
  Stock dividend.   In March 2015, the Company s Board of Directors declared a   two  -for-one stock split of the Company s common stock issued in the form of a stock dividend. Stockholders of record as of April 22, 2015 were issued one additional share of common stock on June 11, 2015 for each share held. All share and per share amounts have been adjusted to reflect the stock split. 
  Use of accounting estimates.     The preparation of consolidated financial statements in conformity with Generally Accepted Accounting Principles in the United States of America ( GAAP ) requires the Company to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, and disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the consolidated financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ from those estimates. The Company s significant accounting estimates include valuation reserves for inventory shortage, packaway inventory costs, useful lives of fixed assets, insurance reserves, and reserves for uncertain tax positions. 
  Purchase obligations.     As of   January 30, 2016  , the Company had purchase obligations of approximately   $1,721 million  . These purchase obligations primarily consist of merchandise inventory purchase orders, commitments related to construction projects, store fixtures and supplies, and information technology service, transportation, and maintenance contracts.  
  Cash and cash equivalents.     Cash equivalents consist of highly liquid, fixed income instruments purchased with an original maturity of three months or less. 
  Restricted cash, cash equivalents, and investments.   The Company has restricted cash, cash equivalents, and investments that serve as collateral for certain insurance obligations of the Company. These restricted funds are invested in bank deposits, money market mutual funds, U.S. Government and agency securities, and corporate securities and cannot be withdrawn from the Company s account without the prior written consent of the secured parties. The following table summarizes total restricted cash, cash equivalents, and investments which were included in Prepaid expenses and other and Other long-term assets in the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  : 

The classification between current and long-term is based on the timing of expected payments of the insurance obligations.  
    
    34 

Estimated fair value of financial instruments.   The carrying value of cash and cash equivalents, short- and long-term investments, restricted cash and cash equivalents, restricted investments, accounts receivable, other long-term assets, accounts payable, and other long-term liabilities approximates their estimated fair value. See Note B and Note D for additional fair value information. 
    
  Cash and cash equivalents were   $761.6 million   and   $696.6 million  , at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively, and include bank deposits and money market funds for which the fair value was determined using quoted prices for identical assets in active markets, which are considered to be Level 1 inputs under the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance. 
  Investments.     The Company s investments are comprised of various debt securities. At   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , these investments were classified as available-for-sale and are stated at fair value. Investments are classified as either short- or long-term based on their original maturities and the Company s intent. Investments with an original maturity of less than one year are classified as short-term. See Note B for additional information. 
  Merchandise inventory.     Merchandise inventory is stated at the lower of cost (determined using a weighted average basis) or net realizable value. The Company purchases inventory that can either be shipped to stores or processed as packaway merchandise with the intent that it will be warehoused and released to stores at a later date. The timing of the release of packaway inventory to the stores is principally driven by the product mix and seasonality of the merchandise, and its relation to the Company s store merchandise assortment plans. As such, the aging of packaway varies by merchandise category and seasonality of purchase, but typically packaway remains in storage less than   six months  . Merchandise inventory includes acquisition, processing, and storage costs related to packaway inventory. The cost of the Company s merchandise inventory is reduced by valuation reserves for shortage based on historical shortage experience from the Company s physical merchandise inventory counts and cycle counts. 
  Cost of goods sold.     In addition to     product costs, the Company includes in cost of goods sold its buying, distribution and freight expenses as well as occupancy costs, and depreciation and amortization related to the Company s retail stores, buying, and distribution facilities. Buying expenses include costs to procure merchandise inventories. Distribution expenses include the cost of operating the Company s distribution centers and warehouse facilities. 
  Property and equipment.     Property and equipment are stated at cost, less accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful life of the asset, typically ranging from three to 12 years for equipment and information systems and 20 to 40 years for land improvements and buildings. Depreciation and amortization expense on property and equipment was   $274.8 million  ,   $233.0 million  , and   $206.1 million   for fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. The cost of leasehold improvements is amortized over the useful life of the asset or the applicable lease term, whichever is less. The Company capitalizes interest during the construction period. Interest capitalized was   $6.5 million  ,   $10.8 million  , and   $10.8 million   in fiscal   2015  , fiscal   2014  , and fiscal   2013  , respectively. As of   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014   the Company had   $35.8 million  ,   $58.6 million  , and   $61.3 million  , respectively, of property and equipment purchased but not yet paid. These purchases are included in Property and Equipment and in Accounts payable and Accrued expenses and other in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  Other long-term assets.     Other long-term assets as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015   consisted of the following: 

Property and other long-term assets that are subject to amortization are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. Intangible assets that are not subject to amortization, including goodwill, are tested for impairment annually or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that the asset may be impaired. Based on the Company s evaluation during fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , no impairment charges were recorded. 
  Store closures.     The Company continually reviews the operating performance of individual stores. For stores that are closed, the Company records a liability for future minimum lease payments net of estimated sublease recoveries and  
    35 

related ancillary costs at the time the liability is incurred. The lease loss liability was   $1.8 million   and   $2.7 million  , as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively. Operating costs, including depreciation, of stores to be closed are expensed during the period they remain in use. In   2015  , the Company closed   six   stores. In   2014  , the Company closed   nine   stores.  
  Accounts payable.     Accounts payable represents amounts owed to third parties at the end of the period. Accounts payable includes book cash overdrafts (checks issued under zero balance accounts not yet presented for payment) in excess of cash balances in such accounts of approximately   $100.3 million   and   $123.8 million   at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively. The Company includes the change in book cash overdrafts in operating cash flows. 
  Insurance obligations.     The Company uses a combination of insurance and self-insurance for a number of risk management activities, including workers  compensation, general liability, and employee-related health care benefits. The self-insurance and deductible liability is determined actuarially, based on claims filed and an estimate of claims incurred but not yet reported. Self-insurance and deductible reserves as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015   consisted of the following: 

Workers  compensation and self-insured medical plan liabilities are included in Accrued payroll and benefits, and accruals for general liability are included in Accrued expenses and other in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  Other long-term liabilities.     Other long-term liabilities as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015   consisted of the following: 

Lease accounting.     When a lease contains  rent holidays  or requires fixed escalations of the minimum lease payments, the Company records rental expense on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease and the difference between the average rental amount charged to expense and the amount payable under the lease is recorded as deferred rent. The Company begins recording rent expense on the lease possession date. Tenant improvement allowances are included in Other long-term liabilities and are amortized over the lease term. Changes in tenant improvement allowances are included as a component of operating activities in the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows. 
  Revenue recognition.     The Company recognizes revenue at the point of sale and maintains an allowance for estimated future returns. Sales of stored value cards are deferred until they are redeemed for the purchase of Company merchandise. The Company s stored value cards do not have expiration dates. Based upon historical redemption rates, a small percentage of stored value cards will never be redeemed, which represents breakage. The Company recognizes income from stored value card breakage as a reduction of operating expenses when redemption by a customer is considered to be remote. Income recognized from breakage was not significant in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  . 
  Sales tax collected is not recognized as revenue and is included in Accrued expenses and other. 
    36 

Allowance for sales returns.     An allowance for the gross margin loss on estimated sales returns is included in Accrued expenses and other in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The allowance for sales returns consists of the following: 

Store pre-opening.     Store pre-opening costs are expensed in the period incurred. 
  Advertising.     Advertising costs are expensed in the period incurred and are included in Selling, general and administrative expenses. Advertising costs for fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   were   $77.1 million  ,   $72.1 million  , and   $70.2 million  , respectively. 
  Stock-based compensation.     The Company recognizes compensation expense based upon the grant date fair value of all stock-based awards, typically over the vesting period. See Note C for more information on the Company s stock-based compensation plans. 
  Taxes on earnings.     The Company accounts for income taxes in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ( ASC ) 740,  Accounting for Income Taxes,  which requires the recognition of deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in the Company's consolidated financial statements or tax returns. In estimating future tax consequences, the Company generally considers all expected future events other than changes in the tax law or tax rates. ASC 740 clarifies the criteria that an individual tax position must satisfy for some or all of the benefits of that position to be recognized in a company s consolidated financial statements. ASC 740 prescribes a recognition threshold of more-likely-than-not, and a measurement standard for all tax positions taken or expected to be taken on a tax return, in order for those tax positions to be recognized in the consolidated financial statements. See Note F. 
  Treasury stock.     The Company records treasury stock at cost. Treasury stock includes shares purchased from employees for tax withholding purposes related to vesting of restricted stock grants. 
  Earnings per share     ( EPS ).     The Company computes and reports both basic EPS and diluted EPS. Basic EPS is computed by dividing net earnings by the weighted average number of common shares outstanding for the period. Diluted EPS is computed by dividing net earnings by the sum of the weighted average number of common shares and dilutive common stock equivalents outstanding during the period. Diluted EPS reflects the total potential dilution that could occur from outstanding equity plan awards, including unexercised stock options and unvested shares of both performance and non-performance based awards of restricted stock and restricted stock units. 
  In fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   there were   25,000  ,   5,100  , and   5,700   weighted average shares, respectively, that were excluded from the calculation of diluted EPS because their effect would have been anti-dilutive for those years.  
    37 

The following is a reconciliation of the number of shares (denominator) used in the basic and diluted EPS computations: 

Comprehensive income.   Comprehensive income includes net earnings and components of other comprehensive income (loss), net of tax, consisting of unrealized investment gains or losses.  
    
  Recently issued accounting standards.   In May 2014, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update (ASU) 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers  .     The guidance provides a five-step analysis of transactions to determine when and how revenue is recognized. The core principle of the guidance is that a company should recognize revenue when the customer obtains control of promised goods or services in an amount that reflects the consideration which the company expects to receive in exchange for those goods or services. ASU 2014-09 is effective for the Company s annual and interim reporting periods beginning in fiscal 2018. The Company is currently evaluating the effect that adoption of this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
    
  In February 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued ASU 2016-02,   Leases (Topic 842).   The guidance requires balance sheet recognition of the following for all leases with lease terms greater than one year including a lease liability, which is a lessee s obligation to make lease payments arising from a lease, measured on a discounted basis; and a right-of-use asset, which is an asset that represents the lessee s right to use, or control the use of, a specified asset for the lease term. ASU 2016-02 is effective for the Company's annual and interim reporting periods beginning in fiscal 2019. The Company is currently evaluating the effect adoption of this new guidance will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Recently issued and adopted accounting standards.   In April 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-03,   Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs  . The standard amends existing guidance to require the presentation of debt issuance costs in the balance sheet as a deduction from the carrying amount of the related debt liability instead of as an asset. ASU 2015-03 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods after December 15, 2015, with early adoption permitted. The Company early adopted ASU 2015-03 retrospectively in its first fiscal quarter ended May 2, 2015. As a result of the retrospective adoption, the Company reclassified unamortized debt issuance costs of   $2.8 million   as of January 31, 2015, from Other long-term assets to a reduction in Long-term debt on the Consolidated Balance Sheet. Adoption of this standard did not impact results of operations, retained earnings, or cash flows in the current or previous interim and annual reporting periods. See Note D. 
    
  In November 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-17,   Income Taxes (Topic 740): Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes   (ASU 2015-17), which simplifies the presentation of deferred taxes by requiring deferred tax assets and liabilities be classified as noncurrent on the balance sheet. ASU 2015-17 is effective for annual and interim reporting periods after December 15, 2016, with early adoption permitted.  The Company early adopted ASU 2015-17 retrospectively, as of January 30, 2016.  As a result,   $13.0 million   of its deferred tax assets previously presented in current assets have been reclassified to long term deferred tax liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheet as of January 31, 2015. Adoption of this standard did not impact results of operations, retained earnings, or cash flows in the current or previous annual reporting periods. See Note F. 
    
    38 

Note B: Investments and Restricted Investments 
    
  Accounting standards pertaining to fair value measurements establish a three-tier fair value hierarchy which prioritizes the inputs used in measuring fair value. The inputs used to measure fair value include: Level 1, observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; Level 2, inputs other than quoted prices in active markets that are either directly or indirectly observable; and Level 3, unobservable inputs in which little or no market data exists. This fair value hierarchy requires the Company to develop its own assumptions and maximize the use of observable inputs and minimize the use of unobservable inputs when measuring fair value. Corporate, U.S. government and agency, and mortgage-backed securities are classified within Level 1 or Level 2 because these securities are valued using quoted market prices or alternative pricing sources and models utilizing market observable inputs. 
    
  There were no transfers between Level 1 and Level 2 categories during the fiscal year ended   January 30, 2016  . The fair value of the Company s financial instruments are as follows: 

The underlying assets in the Company s non-qualified deferred compensation program as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015   (included in Other long-term assets and in Other long-term liabilities) primarily consist of participant-directed money market, stable value, stock, and bond funds. The fair value measurement for funds with quoted market prices in active markets (Level 1) and for funds without quoted market prices in active markets (Level 2) are as follows: 

Note C: Stock-Based Compensation 
    
  For fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , the Company recognized stock-based compensation expense as follows: 

Capitalized stock-based compensation cost was not significant in any year. 
    39 

No   stock options were granted during fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  . At   January 30, 2016  , the Company had   one   active stock-based compensation plan, which is further described in Note H. The Company recognizes expense for ESPP purchase rights equal to the value of the   15%   discount given on the purchase date. 
    
  Total stock-based compensation recognized in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Earnings for fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   is as follows: 

Note D: Debt 
    
  Senior notes.   Unsecured senior debt, net of unamortized discounts and debt issuance costs, as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015   consisted of the following: 

In September 2014, the Company issued unsecured   3.375%   Senior Notes due   September 2024   (the  2024 Notes ) with an aggregate principal amount of   $250 million  . Interest on the 2024 Notes is payable semi-annually.  
    
  As of   January 30, 2016  , the Company also had outstanding two other series of unsecured senior notes in the aggregate principal amount of   $150 million  , held by various institutional investors. The Series A notes totaling   $85 million   are due in   December 2018   and bear interest at a rate of   6.38%  . The Series B notes totaling   $65 million   are due in   December 2021   and bear interest at a rate of   6.53%  . Borrowings under these senior notes are subject to certain financial covenants, including interest coverage and other financial ratios. As of   January 30, 2016  , the Company was in compliance with these covenants.  
    
  As of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , total unamortized discount and debt issuance costs were   $4.0 million   and   $4.4 million  , respectively, and were classified as a reduction of Long-term debt.  
    
  The 2024 Notes, Series A, and Series B senior notes are all subject to prepayment penalties for early payment of principal.  
    
  The aggregate fair value of the three outstanding senior note issuances was approximately   $423 million   and   $442 million   as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively. The fair value is estimated by obtaining comparable market quotes which are considered to be Level 1 inputs under the fair value measurements and disclosures guidance.  
    
    40 

The following table shows scheduled annual principal payments on Long-term debt: 

The table below shows the components of interest expense and income for fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  : 

Revolving credit facility.   The Company's   $600 million   unsecured revolving credit facility expires in   June 2017   and contains a   $300 million   sublimit for issuance of standby letters of credit. Interest on this facility is based on LIBOR plus an applicable margin (currently   100   basis points) and is payable quarterly and upon maturity. As of   January 30, 2016   the Company had   no   borrowings or standby letters of credit outstanding under this facility and the   $600 million   credit facility remains in place and available. The Company plans to renew the revolving credit facility in 2016. 
    
  The revolving credit facility is subject to certain financial covenants, including interest coverage and other financial ratios. In addition, the interest rates under the revolving credit facility may vary depending on actual interest coverage ratios achieved. As of   January 30, 2016  , the Company was in compliance with these covenants. 
  Standby letters of credit and collateral trust.   The Company uses standby letters of credit outside of its revolving credit facility in addition to a funded trust to collateralize its insurance obligations. As of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , the Company had   $15.3 million   and   $19.5 million  , respectively, in standby letters of credit and   $56.4 million   and   $56.3 million  , respectively, in a collateral trust. The standby letters of credit are collateralized by restricted cash and the collateral trust consists of restricted cash, cash equivalents, and investments. 
  Trade letters of credit.   The Company had   $32.0 million   and   $32.8 million   in trade letters of credit outstanding at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively. 
    
    Note E: Leases 
  The Company currently leases all but   three   of its store locations with original, non-cancelable terms that in general range from   three   to   ten   years. Store leases typically contain provisions for   three   to   four   renewal options of   five   years each. Most store leases also provide for minimum annual rentals and for payment of certain expenses. In addition, some store leases also have provisions for additional rent based on a percentage of sales.  
  The Company leases   three   warehouses.   Two   of the warehouses are in Carlisle, Pennsylvania with leases expiring in   2016   and   2017  . The third warehouse is in Fort Mill, South Carolina, with a lease expiring in   2019  . The leases for the   two   Carlisle, Pennsylvania warehouses contain renewal provisions.  
  The Company leases approximately   68,000   square feet of office space for its Los Angeles buying office. The lease term for this facility expires in   2017   and contains renewal provisions. In addition, the Company has a ground lease related to its New York buying office.  
    41 

The aggregate future minimum annual lease payments under leases, including the ground lease related to the New York buying office, in effect at   January 30, 2016   are as follows: 

Rent expense, including contingent rent and net of sublease income, was   $473.2 million  ,   $451.9 million  ,   and   $431.8 million   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. Contingent rent and sublease income was not significant in any year. 
      
  Note F: Taxes on Earnings 
  The provision for income taxes consisted of the following: 

In fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , the Company realized tax benefits of   $42.4 million  ,   $29.8 million   and   $27.7 million  , respectively, related to employee equity programs that were recorded in additional paid-in capital. 
  The provision for taxes for financial reporting purposes is different from the tax provision computed by applying the statutory federal income tax rate. The differences are reconciled below: 

42 

The components of deferred taxes at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015   are as follows:   

  At the end of fiscal   2015   and   2014  , the Company's state tax credit carryforwards for income tax purposes were approximately   $16.1 million   and   $12.1 million  , respectively. The state tax credit carryforwards will begin to expire in fiscal   2023  . 
  The changes in amounts of unrecognized tax benefits (gross of federal tax benefits and excluding interest and penalties) at fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   are as follows: 

At the end of fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , the reserves for unrecognized tax benefits were   $94.2 million  ,   $101.7 million  , and   $104.9 million   inclusive of   $18.8 million  ,   $23.6 million  , and   $24.6 million   of related interest and penalties, respectively. The Company accounts for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a part of its provision for taxes on earnings. If recognized,   $45.9 million   would impact the Company s effective tax rate. The difference between the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits and the amounts that would impact the effective tax rate relates to amounts attributable to deferred tax assets and liabilities. These amounts are net of federal and state income taxes. 
  The Company believes it is reasonably possible that certain federal and state tax matters may be concluded or statutes of limitations may lapse during the next twelve months. Accordingly, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may decrease, reducing the provision for taxes on earnings by up to   $3.7 million  . 
    
    43 

The Company is generally open to audit by the Internal Revenue Service under the statute of limitations for fiscal years   2012   through   2015  . The Company s state income tax returns are generally open to audit under the various statutes of limitations for fiscal years   2011   through   2015  . Certain state tax returns are currently under audit by state tax authorities. The Company does not expect the results of these audits to have a material impact on the consolidated financial statements. 
    
    Note G: Employee Benefit Plans 
  The Company has a defined contribution plan that is available to certain employees. Under the plan, employee and Company contributions and accumulated plan earnings qualify for favorable tax treatment under Section 401(k) of the Internal Revenue Code. This plan permits employees to make contributions up to the maximum limits allowable under the Internal Revenue Code. The Company matches up to   4%   of the employee s salary up to the plan limits. Company matching contributions to the 401(k) plan were   $12.7 million  ,   $11.4 million  , and   $10.4 million   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. 
  The Company also has an Incentive Compensation Plan which provides cash awards to key management and employees based on Company and individual performance. 
  The Company also makes available to management a Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan which allows management to make payroll contributions on a pre-tax basis in addition to the 401(k) plan. Other long-term assets include   $86.1 million   and   $94.1 million   at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively, of long-term plan investments, at market value, set aside or designated for the Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan (See Note B). Plan investments are designated by the participants, and investment returns are not guaranteed by the Company. The Company has a corresponding liability to participants of   $86.1 million   and   $94.1 million   at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively, included in Other long-term liabilities in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  In addition, the Company has certain individuals who receive or will receive post-employment medical benefits. The estimated liability for these benefits of   $13.2 million   and   $9.7 million   is included in Accrued expenses and other in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , respectively. 
    Note H: Stockholders' Equity 
  Common stock.   In February 2015, the Company s Board of Directors approved a   two  -year   $1.4 billion   stock repurchase program for fiscal 2015 and 2016. 
  The following table summarizes the Company s stock repurchase activity in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  : 

Preferred stock.     The Company has   four million   shares of preferred stock authorized, with a par value of   $.01   per share.   No   preferred stock is issued or outstanding. 
  Dividends.     On   March 1, 2016  , the Company s Board of Directors declared a quarterly cash dividend of   $0.1350   per common share, payable on   March 31, 2016  . The Company s Board of Directors declared cash dividends of   $0.1175   per common share in February, May, August, and November   2015  , cash dividends of   $0.1000   per common share in February, May, August, and November   2014  , and cash dividends of   $0.0850   per common share in May, August, and November   2013  . 
  2008 Equity Incentive Plan.     In 2008, the Company s stockholders approved the adoption of the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the  2008 Plan ) with an initial share reserve of   33.0 million   shares of the Company s common stock, of which   24.0 million   shares can be issued as full value awards. The 2008 Plan provides for various types of incentive awards, which may potentially include the grant of stock options, stock appreciation rights, restricted stock purchase rights, restricted stock bonuses, restricted stock units, performance shares, performance units, and deferred compensation awards. As of   January 30, 2016  , there were   12.7 million   shares that remained available for grant under the 2008 Plan. 
    44 

A summary of the stock option activity for fiscal   2015   is presented below: 

The following table summarizes information about the weighted average remaining contractual life (in years) and the weighted average exercise prices for stock options both outstanding and exercisable as of   January 30, 2016   (number of shares in thousands): 

A summary of restricted stock and performance share award activity for fiscal   2015   is presented below: 

The market value of shares of restricted stock and of the stock underlying restricted stock units at the date of grant is amortized to expense over the vesting period of generally   three   to   five   years. The unamortized compensation expense at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015   was   $94.5 million   and   $87.4 million  , respectively, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted average remaining period of   1.8   years. Intrinsic value for restricted stock, defined as the closing market value on the last business day of fiscal year   2015   (or   $56.26  ), was   $343.4 million  . A total of   12.7 million  ,   13.3 million  , and   14.0 million   shares were available for new restricted stock awards at the end of fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. During fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , shares purchased by the Company for tax withholding totaled   1.3 million  ,   1.1 million  , and   1.0 million   shares, respectively, and are considered treasury shares which are available for reissuance. As of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , the Company held   11.1 million   and   9.8 million   shares of treasury stock, respectively. 
  Performance share awards.     The Company has a performance share award program for senior executives. A performance share award represents a right to receive shares of restricted stock or restricted stock units on a specified settlement date based on the Company s attainment of a profitability-based performance goal during the performance period, which is the Company s fiscal year. If attained, the restricted stock or units then vest over a service period, generally   two   to   three   years from the date the performance award was granted. The release of shares related to  
    45 

restricted stock units earned is deferred generally for   one   year from the date earned. The Company issued approximately   601,000  ,   607,000  , and   481,000   shares in settlement of the fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013   awards. 
  Employee Stock Purchase Plan.     Under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ), eligible employees participating in the quarterly offering period can choose to have up to the lesser of   10%   of their annual base earnings or the IRS annual share purchase limit of   $25,000   in aggregate market value to purchase the Company s common stock. The purchase price of the stock is   85%   of the closing market price on the date of purchase. Purchases occur on a quarterly basis (on the last trading day of each calendar quarter). The Company recognizes expense for ESPP purchase rights equal to the value of the   15%   discount given on the purchase date. 
  During fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , employees purchased approximately   0.4 million   shares, in each year, of the Company s common stock under the plan at weighted average per share prices of   $43.16  ,   $32.18  , and   $28.79  , respectively. Through   January 30, 2016  , approximately   39.0 million   shares had been issued under this plan and   6.0 million   shares remained available for future issuance. 
    46 

Note I: Related Party Transactions 
  The Company has a consulting agreement with Norman Ferber, its Chairman Emeritus of the Board of Directors, under which the Company pays him an annual consulting fee of   $1.5 million   through   May 2018  . In addition, the agreement provides for administrative support and health and other benefits for the individual and his dependents, which totaled approximately   $0.3 million   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , along with amounts to cover premiums through   May 2018   on a life insurance policy with a death benefit of   $2.0 million  . On termination of Mr. Ferber s consultancy with the Company, the Company will pay Mr. Ferber   $75,000   per year for a period of   10   years. 
  Robert Ferber, the son of Norman Ferber, is a buyer with the Company. The Company paid Robert Ferber compensation including salary and bonus of approximately   $131,000  ,   $133,000  , and   $134,000   in fiscal   2015  ,   2014  , and   2013  , respectively. 
    Note J: Litigation, Claims, and Assessments 
  Like many retailers, the Company has been named in class action lawsuits, primarily in California, alleging violation of wage and hour laws and consumer protection laws. Class action litigation remains pending as of   January 30, 2016  . 
  The Company is also party to various other legal and regulatory proceedings arising in the normal course of business. Actions filed against the Company may include commercial, product and product safety, customer, intellectual property, and labor and employment-related claims, including lawsuits in which private plaintiffs or governmental agencies allege that the Company violated federal, state, and/or local laws. Actions against the Company are in various procedural stages. Many of these proceedings raise factual and legal issues and are subject to uncertainties. 
  In the opinion of management, the resolution of pending class action litigation and other currently pending legal and regulatory proceedings will not have a material adverse effect on the Company s financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 
      
    47 

Note K: Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
  Summarized quarterly financial information for fiscal   2015   and   2014   is presented in the tables below. 
  Year ended   January 30, 2016  : 

1    EPS is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. The sum of the quarters may not equal the total year amount due to the impact of changes in average quarterly shares outstanding. 
    
   2    All per share amounts have been adjusted for the   two  -for-one stock split effective June 11, 2015. 
    
    48 

Year ended   January 31, 2015  : 

1    EPS is computed independently for each of the quarters presented. The sum of the quarters may not equal the total year amount due to the impact of changes in average quarterly shares outstanding. 
    
   2    All per share amounts have been adjusted for the   two  -for-one stock split effective June 11, 2015. 

49 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of Ross Stores, Inc.: 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Ross Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   January 30, 2016  . We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of   January 30, 2016  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting.  Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
    
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Ross Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries as of   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   January 30, 2016  , in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of   January 30, 2016  , based on the criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission  . 
    
     /s/  DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  San Francisco, California 
  March 29, 2016    
    50 

ITEM 9. CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
  None 
    
  ITEM 9A. CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
  Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our  disclosure controls and procedures,  (as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(e)), as of the end of the period covered by this report. Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives. Based on that evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at that reasonable assurance level as of the end of the period covered by this report. 
  It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system will be met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. 
  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Exchange Act Rule 13a-15(f). Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of consolidated financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
  Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework established by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO) as set forth in     Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  . Based on our evaluation under the framework in     Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  , our management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   January 30, 2016  . 
  Our internal control over financial reporting as of   January 30, 2016   has also been audited by Deloitte   Touche LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, and their opinion as to the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting is stated in their report, dated   March 29, 2016  , which is included in Item 8 in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. It should be noted that any system of controls, however well designed and operated, can provide only reasonable, and not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system will be met. In addition, the design of any control system is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  Quarterly Evaluation of Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, also conducted an evaluation of our internal control over financial reporting to determine whether any change occurred during the fourth fiscal quarter of   2015   that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. Based on that evaluation, our management concluded that there was no such change during the fourth fiscal quarter. 
    
    ITEM 9B. OTHER INFORMATION 
  None 
    51 

PART III 
  ITEM 10. DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
  Information required by Item 401 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Executive Officers of the Registrant  at the end of Part I of this report; and to the sections of the Ross Stores, Inc. Proxy Statement for the Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be held on   Wednesday  ,   May 18, 2016   (the  Proxy Statement ) entitled  Information Regarding Nominees and Incumbent Directors.  Information required by Item 405 of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement under the section titled  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance.  Since our last Annual Report on Form 10-K, we have not made any material changes to the procedures by which our stockholders may recommend nominees to the Board of Directors. Information required by Item 407(d)(4) and (d)(5) of Regulation S-K is incorporated by reference to the Proxy Statement under the section entitled  Information Regarding Nominees and Incumbent Directors  under the caption  Audit Committee.  
  Our Board of Directors has adopted a Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers that applies to the Company's Executive Chairman; Chief Executive Officer; Chief Operating Officer; Chief Merchandising Officer; Chief Development Officer;  Executive Vice President, Finance and Legal; Chief Financial Officer; Group Vice President, Controller; Group Vice President, Finance and Treasurer; Vice President, Accounting and Assistant Controller; Vice President Finance; Vice President Tax; Assistant Treasurer; Investor and Media Relations personnel; and other positions that may be designated by the Company. This Code of Ethics is posted on our corporate website (www.rossstores.com) under     Corporate Governance in the Investors Section. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements of Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding any future amendments to, or waivers from, our Code of Ethics for Senior Financial Officers by posting any changed version on the same corporate website. 
    ITEM 11. EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
  The information required by Item 402 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement entitled  Compensation of Directors  and  Executive Compensation  under the captions  Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Summary Compensation Table,   All Other Compensation,   Perquisites,   Discussion of Summary Compensation,   Grants of Plan-Based Awards During Fiscal Year,   Outstanding Equity Awards at Fiscal Year-End,   Option Exercises and Stock Vested,   Non-Qualified Deferred Compensation,  and  Potential Payments Upon Termination or Change in Control.  
  The information required by Items 407(e)(4) and (e)(5) of Regulation S-K are incorporated herein by reference to the sections of the Proxy Statement entitled  Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation  and  Compensation Committee Report.  
      
    52 

ITEM 12. SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
  Equity compensation plan information  . The following table summarizes the equity compensation plans under which the Company s common stock may be issued as of   January 30, 2016  : 
                                   Shares in (000s) 
      
    (a) 
  Number of securities 
  to be issued upon 
  exercise of 
  outstanding options and rights 

(b) 
  Weighted average 
  exercise price per 
  share of outstanding options and rights 

(c) 
  Number of securities 
  remaining available for 
  future issuance 
  (excluding securities reflected in column (a))   1  

Equity compensation plans 

approved by security holders 
      
    427 
      
     2   
    $7.34 
      
    18,689 
      
     3   
      Equity compensation plans not  

approved by security holders 

Total 
      
    427 

$7.34 
      
    18,689 

1    After approval by stockholders of the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan in May 2008, any shares remaining available for grant in the share reserves of  
  the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan, 1992 Stock Option Plan, the 2000 Equity Plan, the 1991 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, and the 1988 Restricted Stock Plan were automatically canceled. 
    
   2    Represents shares reserved for options granted under the 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. 
    
   3    Includes   6.0 million   shares reserved for issuance under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan and   12.7 million   shares reserved for issuance under the 2008 Equity Incentive Plan. 
    
  The information required by Item 403 of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement entitled "Stock Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management." 
      
  ITEM 13. CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
  The information required by Items 404 and 407(a) of Regulation S-K is incorporated herein by reference to the section of the Proxy Statement entitled  Information Regarding Nominees and Incumbent Directors  including the captions  Audit Committee,   Compensation Committee,  and  Nominating and Corporate Governance Committee,  and the section of the Proxy Statement entitled  Certain Transactions.  
      
  ITEM 14. PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
  Information concerning principal accountant fees and services will appear in the Proxy Statement in the Ross Stores, Inc. Board of Directors Audit Committee Report under the caption  Summary of Audit, Audit-Related, Tax and All Other Fees.  Such information is incorporated herein by reference. 

53 

PART IV 
  ITEM 15. EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
  (a) The following consolidated financial statements, schedules, and exhibits are filed as part of this report or are incorporated herein as indicated: 
           1. 
         List of Consolidated Financial Statements. 
     The following consolidated financial statements are included herein under Item 8: 
  Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014  . 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014  . 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets at   January 30, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  . 
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014  . 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended   January 30, 2016  ,   January 31, 2015  , and   February 1, 2014  . 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
  2.    List of Consolidated Financial Statement Schedules. 
  Schedules are omitted because they are not required, not applicable, or such information is included in the consolidated financial statements or notes thereto which are included in this Report. 
  3.    List of Exhibits (in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K). 
  Incorporated herein by reference to the list of Exhibits contained in the Exhibit Index within this Report. 
    
    54 

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15 (d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

ROSS STORES, INC. 

(Registrant) 

By:  
    /s/Barbara Rentler 
      Date: 
    March 29, 2016 
      
    Barbara Rentler 

Chief Executive Officer 

55 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
                       Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 
      /s/Barbara Rentler 
      
    Chief Executive Officer, Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Barbara Rentler 

/s/Michael J. Hartshorn 
      
    Group Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Michael J. Hartshorn 
      
    and Principal Accounting Officer 

/s/Michael Balmuth 
      
    Executive Chairman of the Board, Director  
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Michael Balmuth 

/s/K. Gunnar Bjorklund 
      
    Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      K. Gunnar Bjorklund 

/s/Michael J. Bush 
      
    Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Michael J. Bush 

/s/Norman A. Ferber 
      
    Chairman Emeritus of the Board, Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Norman A. Ferber 

/s/Sharon D. Garrett 
      
    Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Sharon D. Garrett 

/s/Stephen D. Milligan 
      
    Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Stephen D. Milligan 

/s/G. Orban 
      
    Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      George P. Orban 

/s/Michael O'Sullivan 
      
    President and Chief Operating Officer, Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Michael O'Sullivan 

/s/Larry S. Peiros 
      
    Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Lawrence S. Peiros 

/s/G. L. Quesnel 
      
    Director 
      
    March 29, 2016 
      Gregory L. Quesnel 

56 

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 

57 

58 

10.21 
      
    Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Agreement under the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.4 to the Form 8-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on May 23, 2008.  
      10.22 
      
    Form of Notice of Grant of Restricted Stock Units and Restricted Stock Units Agreement under the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.5 to the Form 8-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on May 23, 2008.  
      10.23 
      
    Form of Notice of Grant of Stock Option and Stock Option Agreement under the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 99.7 to the Form 8-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. on May 23, 2008.  
      10.24 
      
    Ross Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 2, 2009.  
      10.25 
      
    Form of Restricted Stock Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 3, 2014.  
      10.26 
      
    Ross Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Agreement for Nonemployee Director, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 2, 2009.  
      10.27 
      
    Form of Notice of Grant of Performance Shares and Performance Share Agreement under the Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended July 30, 2011.  
      10.28 
      
    Form of Performance Shares Grant Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 3, 2014.  
      10.29 
      
    Form of Indemnity Agreement between Ross Stores, Inc. for Directors and Executive Officers, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.26 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended February 2, 2013.  
      10.30 
      
    Form of Executive Employment Agreement, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Form 10-Q filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 3, 2014.  
      10.31 
      
    Forms of Executive Employment Agreement between Ross Stores, Inc. and Executives, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 2, 2015.  
      10.32 
      
    Forms of Amendment to Executive Employment Agreement between Ross Stores, Inc. and Executives, incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 2, 2015.  
      10.33 
      
    Amended and Restated Independent Contractor Consultancy Agreement effective January 6, 2010 between Norman A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.47 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended January 30, 2010.  
      10.34 
      
    Amended Independent Contractor Consultancy Agreement effective January 30, 2012 between Norman A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.52 to the Form 10-K filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its fiscal year ended January 28, 2012.  
      10.35 
      
    Amendment to Independent Contractor Consultancy Agreement effective February 17, 2015 between Norman A. Ferber and Ross Stores, Inc., incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed by Ross Stores, Inc. for its quarter ended May 2, 2015.  

59 

60 

61 

32.2 
      
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350.  
      101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document  
      101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema  
      101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase  
      101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase  
      101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase  
      101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase  

62 

<EX-10.18>
 2
 exhibit10182008equityincen.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.18

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.18 

Ross Stores, Inc. 
    
  2008 Equity Incentive Plan 
    
  As Amended Through May 21, 2014 

Exhibit 10.18 

   Ross Stores, Inc. 
  2008 Equity Incentive Plan 
  As Amended Through March 18, 2009 
    
  1.  ESTABLISHMENT, PURPOSE AND TERM OF PLAN  . 
  1.1        Establishment  .    The Ross Stores, Inc. 2008 Equity Incentive Plan (the      Plan     ) is hereby established effective as of May 22, 2008, the date of its approval by the stockholders of the Company (the      Effective Date     ). 
  1.2        Purpose  .    The purpose of the Plan is to advance the interests of the Participating Company Group and its stockholders by providing an incentive to attract, retain and reward persons performing services for the Participating Company Group and by motivating such persons to contribute to the growth and profitability of the Participating Company Group.  The Plan seeks to achieve this purpose by providing for Awards in the form of Options, Stock Appreciation Rights, Restricted Stock Purchase Rights, Restricted Stock Bonuses, Restricted Stock Units, Performance Shares, Performance Units, Deferred Compensation Awards and Nonemployee Director Awards. 
  1.3        Term of Plan.    The Plan shall continue in effect until its termination by the Committee; provided, however, that all Awards shall be granted, if at all, within ten (10) years from the Effective Date. 
  2.        DEFINITIONS AND CONSTRUCTION  . 
  2.1        Definitions.    Whenever used herein, the following terms shall have their respective meanings set forth below: 
  (a)           Affiliate      means (i) an entity, other than a Parent Corporation, that directly, or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities, controls the Company or (ii) an entity, other than a Subsidiary Corporation, that is controlled by the Company directly or indirectly through one or more intermediary entities.  For this purpose, the term  control  (including the term  controlled by ) means the possession, direct or indirect, of the power to direct or cause the direction of the management and policies of the relevant entity, whether through the ownership of voting securities, by contract or otherwise; or shall have such other meaning assigned such term for the purposes of registration on Form S 8 under the Securities Act. 
  (b)           Award      means any Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Purchase Right, Restricted Stock Bonus, Restricted Stock Unit, Performance Share, Performance Unit, Deferred Compensation Award or Nonemployee Director Award granted under the Plan. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (c)           Award Agreement      means a written or electronic agreement between the Company and a Participant setting forth the terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award granted to the Participant. 
  (d)           Board      means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
  (e)           Change in Control      means, unless such term or an equivalent term is otherwise defined with respect to an Award by the Participant s Award Agreement or by a written contract of employment or service, the occurrence of any of the following: 
  (i)        any  person  (as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act) becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d 3 promulgated under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing more than fifty percent (50%) of the total Fair Market Value or total combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors; provided, however, that the following acquisitions shall not constitute a Change in Control: (1) an acquisition by any person who on the Effective Date is the beneficial owner of more than fifty percent (50%) of such Fair Market Value or voting power, (2) an acquisition directly from the Company, including, without limitation, a public offering of securities, (3) an acquisition by the Company, (4) an acquisition by a trustee or other fiduciary under an employee benefit plan of a Participating Company or (5) an acquisition by an entity owned directly or indirectly by the stockholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the voting securities of the Company; or 
  (ii)        an Ownership Change Event or series of related Ownership Change Events (collectively, a      Transaction     ) in which the stockholders of the Company immediately before the Transaction do not retain immediately after the Transaction direct or indirect beneficial ownership of more than fifty percent (50%) of the total combined voting power of the outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of Directors or, in the case of an Ownership Change Event described in Section 2.1(aa)(iii), the entity to which the assets of the Company were transferred (the      Transferee     ), as the case may be; or 
  (iii)        a liquidation or dissolution of the Company; 
  For purposes of the preceding sentence, indirect beneficial ownership shall include, without limitation, an interest resulting from ownership of the voting securities of one or more corporations or other business entities which own the Company or the Transferee, as the case may be, either directly or through one or more subsidiary corporations or other business entities.  The Committee shall determine whether multiple sales or exchanges of the voting securities of the Company or multiple Ownership Change Events are related, and its determination shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
  (f)           Code      means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, and any applicable regulations or administrative guidelines promulgated thereunder. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (g)           Committee      means the Compensation Committee and such other committee or subcommittee of the Board, if any, duly appointed to administer the Plan and having such powers in each instance as shall be specified by the Board.  If, at any time, there is no committee of the Board then authorized or properly constituted to administer the Plan, the Board shall exercise all of the powers of the Committee granted herein, and, in any event, the Board may in its discretion exercise any or all of such powers. 
  (h)           Company      means Ross Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor corporation thereto. 
  (i)           Consultant      means a person engaged to provide consulting or advisory services (other than as an Employee or a member of the Board) to a Participating Company, provided that the identity of such person, the nature of such services or the entity to which such services are provided would not preclude the Company from offering or selling securities to such person pursuant to the Plan in reliance on registration on Form S 8 under the Securities Act. 
  (j)           Covered Employee      means, at any time the Plan is subject to Section 162(m), any Employee who is or may reasonably be expected to become a  covered employee  as defined in Section 162(m), or any successor statute, and who is designated, either as an individual Employee or a member of a class of Employees, by the Committee no later than (i) the date ninety (90) days after the beginning of the Performance Period, or (ii) the date on which twenty-five percent (25%) of the Performance Period has elapsed, as a  Covered Employee  under this Plan for such applicable Performance Period. 
  (k)           Deferred Compensation Award      means an award of Stock Units granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 11. 
  (l)           Director      means a member of the Board. 
  (m)           Disability      means the permanent and total disability of the Participant, within the meaning of Section 22(e)(3) of the Code. 
  (n)           Dividend Equivalent Right      means the right of a Participant, granted at the discretion of the Committee or as otherwise provided by the Plan, to receive a credit for the account of such Participant in an amount equal to the cash dividends paid on one share of Stock for each share of Stock represented by an Award held by such Participant. 
  (o)           Employee      means any person treated as an employee (including an Officer or a member of the Board who is also treated as an employee) in the records of a Participating Company and, with respect to any Incentive Stock Option granted to such person, who is an employee for purposes of Section 422 of the Code; provided, however, that neither service as a member of the Board nor payment of a director s fee shall be sufficient to constitute employment for purposes of the Plan.  The Company shall determine in good faith and in the exercise of its discretion whether an individual has become or has ceased to be an Employee and the effective date of such individual s employment or termination of employment, as the case  

Exhibit 10.18 

   may be.  For purposes of an individual s rights, if any, under the terms of the Plan as of the time of the Company s determination of whether or not the individual is an Employee, all such determinations by the Company shall be final, binding and conclusive as to such rights, if any, notwithstanding that the Company or any court of law or governmental agency subsequently makes a contrary determination as to such individual s status as an Employee. 
  (p)           Exchange Act      means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
  (q)           Fair Market Value      means, as of any date, the value of a share of Stock or other property as determined by the Committee, in its discretion, or by the Company, in its discretion, if such determination is expressly allocated to the Company herein, subject to the following: 
  (i)        Except as otherwise determined by the Committee, if, on such date, the Stock is listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be the closing price of a share of Stock as quoted on the national or regional securities exchange or market system constituting the primary market for the Stock, as reported in   The Wall Street Journal   or such other source as the Company deems reliable.  If the relevant date does not fall on a day on which the Stock has traded on such securities exchange or market system, the date on which the Fair Market Value shall be established shall be the last day on which the Stock was so traded prior to the relevant date, or such other appropriate day as shall be determined by the Committee, in its discretion. 
  (ii)        Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee may, in its discretion, determine the Fair Market Value on the basis of the opening, closing, or average of the high and low sale prices of a share of Stock on such date or the preceding trading day, the actual sale price of a share of Stock received by a Participant, any other reasonable basis using actual transactions in the Stock as reported on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, or on any other basis consistent with the requirements of Section 409A.  The Committee may also determine the Fair Market Value upon the average selling price of the Stock during a specified period that is within thirty (30) days before or thirty (30) days after such date, provided that, with respect to the grant of an Option or SAR, the commitment to grant such Award based on such valuation method must be irrevocable before the beginning of the specified period.  The Committee may vary its method of determination of the Fair Market Value as provided in this Section for different purposes under the Plan to the extent consistent with the requirements of Section 409A. 
  (iii)        If, on such date, the Stock is not listed on a national or regional securities exchange or market system, the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock shall be as determined by the Committee in good faith without regard to any restriction other than a restriction which, by its terms, will never lapse, and in a manner consistent with the requirements of Section 409A. 
  (r)           Full Value Award      means any Award settled in Stock, other than (i) an Option, (ii) a Stock Appreciation Right, (iii) a Restricted Stock Purchase Right under  

Exhibit 10.18 

   which the Company will receive monetary consideration equal to the Fair Market Value (determined on the effective date of grant) of the shares subject to such Award, or (iv) a Nonemployee Director Award which is any of the foregoing types of Awards. 
  (s)           Incentive Stock Option      means an Option intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) and which qualifies as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code. 
  (t)           Insider      means an Officer, a Director or any other person whose transactions in Stock are subject to Section 16 of the Exchange Act. 
  (u)           Insider Trading Policy      means the written policy of the Company pertaining to the purchase, sale, transfer or other disposition of the Company s equity securities by Directors, Officers, Employees or other service providers who may possess material, nonpublic information regarding the Company or its securities. 
  (v)           Nonemployee Director      means a Director who is not an Employee. 
  (w)           Nonemployee Director Award      means a Nonstatutory Stock Option, Stock Appreciation Right, Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to a Nonemployee Director pursuant to Section 12. 
  (x)           Nonstatutory Stock Option      means an Option not intended to be (as set forth in the Award Agreement) an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422(b) of the Code. 
  (y)           Officer      means any person designated by the Board as an officer of the Company. 
  (z)           Option      means an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option granted pursuant to the Plan. 
  (aa)           Ownership Change Event      means the occurrence of any of the following with respect to the Company:  (i) the direct or indirect sale or exchange in a single or series of related transactions by the stockholders of the Company of more than fifty percent (50%) of the voting stock of the Company; (ii) a merger or consolidation in which the Company is a party; or (iii) the sale, exchange, or transfer of all or substantially all of the assets of the Company (other than a sale, exchange or transfer to one or more subsidiaries of the Company). 
  (bb)           Parent Corporation      means any present or future  parent corporation  of the Company, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code. 
  (cc)           Participant      means any eligible person who has been granted one or more Awards. 
  (dd)           Participating Company      means the Company or any Parent Corporation, Subsidiary Corporation or Affiliate. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (ee)           Participating Company Group      means, at any point in time, all entities collectively which are then Participating Companies. 
  (ff)           Performance Award      means an Award of Performance Shares or Performance Units. 
  (gg)           Performance Award Formula      means, for any Performance Award, a formula or table established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3 which provides the basis for computing the value of a Performance Award at one or more threshold levels of attainment of the applicable Performance Goal(s) measured as of the end of the applicable Performance Period. 
  (hh)           Performance-Based Compensation    means compensation under an Award that satisfies the requirements of Section 162(m) for certain performance-based compensation paid to Covered Employees. 
  (ii)           Performance Goal      means a performance goal established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3. 
  (jj)           Performance Period      means a period established by the Committee pursuant to Section 10.3 at the end of which one or more Performance Goals are to be measured. 
  (kk)           Performance Share      means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10 to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Share, as determined by the Committee, based on performance. 
  (ll)           Performance Unit      means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10 to receive a payment equal to the value of a Performance Unit, as determined by the Committee, based upon performance. 
  (mm)           Predecessor Plan      means each of the Company s 1988 Restricted Stock Plan, 1991 Outside Directors Stock Option Plan, 1992 Stock Option Plan, 2000 Equity Incentive Plan and 2004 Equity Incentive Plan. 
  (nn)           Restricted Stock Award      means an Award of a Restricted Stock Bonus or a Restricted Stock Purchase Right. 
  (oo)           Restricted Stock Bonus      means Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8 or Section 12. 
  (pp)           Restricted Stock Purchase Right      means a right to purchase Stock granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 8 or Sections 12. 
  (qq)           Restricted Stock Unit    or      Stock Unit      means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9, Section 11 or Section 12 to receive a share of Stock on a date  

Exhibit 10.18 

   determined in accordance with the provisions of such Sections, as applicable, and the Participant s Award Agreement. 
  (rr)           Rule 16b 3      means Rule 16b 3 under the Exchange Act, as amended from time to time, or any successor rule or regulation. 
  (ss)           SAR      or      Stock Appreciation Right      means a right granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 7 or Section 12 to receive payment, for each share of Stock subject to such Award, of an amount equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the exercise price. 
  (tt)           Section 162(m)      means Section 162(m) of the Code. 
  (uu)           Section 409A      means Section 409A of the Code. 
  (vv)           Section 409A Deferred Compensation      means compensation provided pursuant to an Award that constitutes deferred compensation subject to and not exempted from the requirements of Section 409A. 
  (ww)           Securities Act      means the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. 
  (xx)           Service      means a Participant s employment or service with the Participating Company Group, whether in the capacity of an Employee, a Director or a Consultant.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, a Participant s Service shall not be deemed to have terminated merely because of a change in the capacity in which the Participant renders such Service or a change in the Participating Company for which the Participant renders such Service, provided that there is no interruption or termination of the Participant s Service.  Furthermore, a Participant s Service shall not be deemed to have terminated if the Participant takes any military leave, sick leave, or other bona fide leave of absence approved by the Company.  However, if any such leave taken by a Participant exceeds ninety (90) days, then on the one hundred eighty-first (181st) day following the commencement of such leave any Incentive Stock Option held by the Participant shall cease to be treated as an Incentive Stock Option and instead shall be treated thereafter as a Nonstatutory Stock Option, unless the Participant s right to return to Service with the Participating Company Group is guaranteed by statute or contract.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, unless otherwise designated by the Company or required by law, an unpaid leave of absence shall not be treated as Service for purposes of determining vesting under the Participant s Award Agreement.  A Participant s Service shall be deemed to have terminated either upon an actual termination of Service or upon the business entity for which the Participant performs Service ceasing to be a Participating Company.  Subject to the foregoing, the Company, in its discretion, shall determine whether the Participant s Service has terminated and the effective date of such termination. 
  (yy)           Stock      means the common stock of the Company, as adjusted from time to time in accordance with Section 4.4. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (zz)           Subsidiary Corporation      means any present or future  subsidiary corporation  of the Company, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code. 
  ([[)           Ten Percent Owner      means a Participant who, at the time an Option is granted to the Participant, owns stock possessing more than ten percent (10%) of the total combined voting power of all classes of stock of a Participating Company (other than an Affiliate) within the meaning of Section 422(b)(6) of the Code. 
  (aaa)           Vesting Conditions      mean those conditions established in accordance with the Plan prior to the satisfaction of which shares subject to an Award remain subject to forfeiture or a repurchase option in favor of the Company exercisable for the Participant s monetary purchase price, if any, for such shares upon the Participant s termination of Service. 
  2.2        Construction.    Captions and titles contained herein are for convenience only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of the Plan.  Except when otherwise indicated by the context, the singular shall include the plural and the plural shall include the singular.  Use of the term  or  is not intended to be exclusive, unless the context clearly requires otherwise. 
  3.        ADMINISTRATION  . 
  3.1        Administration by the Committee.    The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  All questions of interpretation of the Plan, of any Award Agreement or of any other form of agreement or other document employed by the Company in the administration of the Plan or of any Award shall be determined by the Committee, and such determinations shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons having an interest in the Plan or such Award, unless fraudulent or made in bad faith.  Any and all actions, decisions and determinations taken or made by the Committee in the exercise of its discretion pursuant to the Plan or Award Agreement or other agreement thereunder (other than determining questions of interpretation pursuant to the preceding sentence) shall be final, binding and conclusive upon all persons having an interest therein. 
  3.2        Authority of Officers  .  Any Officer shall have the authority to act on behalf of the Company with respect to any matter, right, obligation, determination or election which is the responsibility of or which is allocated to the Company herein, provided the Officer has apparent authority with respect to such matter, right, obligation, determination or election.  The Board or Committee may, in its discretion, delegate to one or more Officers, or to a committee comprised of one or more Officers, the authority to grant one or more Awards, without further approval of the Board or the Committee, to any Employee, other than a person who, at the time of such grant, is an Insider or a Covered Person; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share of each such Award which is an Option or SAR shall be not less than the Fair Market Value per share of the Stock on the effective date of grant (or, if the Stock has not traded on such date, on the last day preceding the effective date of grant on which the Stock was traded), (b) each such Award shall be subject to the terms and conditions of the appropriate standard form of Award Agreement approved by the Board or the Committee and shall conform  

Exhibit 10.18 

   to the provisions of the Plan, and (c) each such Award shall conform to guidelines as shall be established from time to time by resolution of the Board or the Committee. 
  3.3        Administration with Respect to Insiders.    With respect to participation by Insiders in the Plan, at any time that any class of equity security of the Company is registered pursuant to Section 12 of the Exchange Act, the Plan shall be administered in compliance with the requirements, if any, of Rule 16b 3. 
  3.4        Committee Complying with Section 162(m).    If the Company is a  publicly held corporation  within the meaning of Section 162(m), the Board may establish a Committee of  outside directors  within the meaning of Section 162(m) to approve the grant of any Award intended to result in the payment of Performance-Based Compensation. 
  3.5        Powers of the Committee  .    In addition to any other powers set forth in the Plan and subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Committee shall have the full and final power and authority, in its discretion: 
  (a)        to determine the persons to whom, and the time or times at which, Awards shall be granted and the number of shares of Stock, units or monetary value to be subject to each Award; 
  (b)        to determine the type of Award granted; 
  (c)        to determine the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock or other property; 
  (d)        to determine the terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to each Award (which need not be identical) and any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including, without limitation, (i) the exercise or purchase price of shares pursuant to any Award, (ii) the method of payment for shares purchased pursuant to any Award, (iii) the method for satisfaction of any tax withholding obligation arising in connection with any Award, including by the withholding or delivery of shares of Stock, (iv) the timing, terms and conditions of the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, (v) the Performance Measures, Performance Period, Performance Award Formula and Performance Goals applicable to any Award and the extent to which such Performance Goals have been attained, (vi) the time of the expiration of any Award, (vii) the effect of the Participant s termination of Service on any of the foregoing, and (viii) all other terms, conditions and restrictions applicable to any Award or shares acquired pursuant thereto not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan; 
  (e)        to determine whether an Award will be settled in shares of Stock, cash, or in any combination thereof; 
  (f)        to approve one or more forms of Award Agreement; 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (g)        to amend, modify, extend, cancel or renew any Award or to waive any restrictions or conditions applicable to any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto; 
  (h)        to accelerate, continue, extend or defer the exercisability or vesting of any Award or any shares acquired pursuant thereto, including with respect to the period following a Participant s termination of Service; 
  (i)        to prescribe, amend or rescind rules, guidelines and policies relating to the Plan, or to adopt sub-plans or supplements to, or alternative versions of, the Plan, including, without limitation, as the Committee deems necessary or desirable to comply with the laws or regulations of or to accommodate the tax policy, accounting principles or custom of, foreign jurisdictions whose citizens may be granted Awards; and 
  (j)        to correct any defect, supply any omission or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or any Award Agreement and to make all other determinations and take such other actions with respect to the Plan or any Award as the Committee may deem advisable to the extent not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan or applicable law. 
  3.6        Option or SAR Repricing.    Without the affirmative vote of holders of a majority of the shares of Stock cast in person or by proxy at a meeting of the stockholders of the Company at which a quorum representing a majority of all outstanding shares of Stock is present or represented by proxy, the Board shall not approve a program providing for either (a) the cancellation of outstanding Options or SARs having exercise prices per share greater than the then Fair Market Value of a share of Stock (     Underwater Awards     ) and the grant in substitution therefore of new Options or SARs having a lower exercise price, Full Value Awards or payments in cash, or (b) the amendment of outstanding Underwater Awards to reduce the exercise price thereof.  This paragraph shall not be construed to apply to  issuing or assuming a stock option in a transaction to which Section 424(a) applies,  within the meaning of Section 424 of the Code. 
  3.7        Indemnification.    In addition to such other rights of indemnification as they may have as members of the Board or the Committee or as officers or employees of the Participating Company Group, members of the Board or the Committee and any officers or employees of the Participating Company Group to whom authority to act for the Board, the Committee or the Company is delegated shall be indemnified by the Company against all reasonable expenses, including attorneys  fees, actually and necessarily incurred in connection with the defense of any action, suit or proceeding, or in connection with any appeal therein, to which they or any of them may be a party by reason of any action taken or failure to act under or in connection with the Plan, or any right granted hereunder, and against all amounts paid by them in settlement thereof (provided such settlement is approved by independent legal counsel selected by the Company) or paid by them in satisfaction of a judgment in any such action, suit or proceeding, except in relation to matters as to which it shall be adjudged in such action, suit or proceeding that such person is liable for gross negligence, bad faith or intentional misconduct in duties; provided, however, that within sixty (60) days after the institution of such action, suit or proceeding, such person shall offer to the Company, in writing, the opportunity at its own expense to handle and defend the same. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   4.        SHARES SUBJECT TO PLAN  . 
  4.1        Maximum Number of Shares Issuable.    Subject to adjustment as provided in Sections 4.2, 4.3 and 4.4, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan shall be six million (6,000,000) and shall consist of authorized but unissued or reacquired shares of Stock or any combination thereof. 
  4.2        Adjustment for Unissued Predecessor Plan Shares.    The maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan as set forth in Section 4.1 shall be cumulatively increased from time to time by: 
  (a)        the number of shares of Stock subject to that portion of any option or other award outstanding pusuant to a Predecessor Plan as of the Effective Date which, on or after the Effective Date, expires or is terminated or canceled for any reason without having been exercised or settled in full; 
  (b)        the number of shares of Stock acquired pursuant to a Predecessor Plan subject to forfeiture or repurchase by the Company at the Participant s purchase price which, on or after the Effective Date, is so forfeited or repurchased; and 
  (c)        the number of shares Stock that are withheld or reacquired by the Company on or after the Effective Date in satisfaction of tax withholding obligations pursuant to a Predecessor Plan; 
  provided, however, that the aggregate number of shares of Stock authorized for issuance under the Predecessor Plans that may become authorized for issuance under the Plan pursuant to this Section 4.2 shall not exceed 8,492,928. 
  4.3        Share Counting.    If an outstanding Award for any reason expires or is terminated or canceled without having been exercised or settled in full, or if shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award subject to forfeiture or repurchase are forfeited or repurchased by the Company for an amount not greater than the Participant s purchase price, the shares of Stock allocable to the terminated portion of such Award or such forfeited or repurchased shares of Stock shall again be available for issuance under the Plan.  Shares of Stock shall not be deemed to have been issued pursuant to the Plan (a) with respect to any portion of an Award that is settled in cash or (b) to the extent such shares are withheld or reacquired by the Company in satisfaction of tax withholding obligations pursuant to Section 17.2.  Upon payment in shares of Stock pursuant to the exercise of an SAR, the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced only by the number of shares actually issued in such payment.  If the exercise price of an Option is paid by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant, the number of shares available for issuance under the Plan shall be reduced by the net number of shares for which the Option is exercised. 
  4.4        Adjustments for Changes in Capital Structure  .    Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company and the requirements of Section 409A and 424 of the Code to the extent applicable, in the event of any change in the Stock effected without receipt of  

Exhibit 10.18 

   consideration by the Company, whether through merger, consolidation, reorganization, reincorporation, recapitalization, reclassification, stock dividend, stock split, reverse stock split, split-up, split-off, spin-off, combination of shares, exchange of shares, or similar change in the capital structure of the Company, or in the event of payment of a dividend or distribution to the stockholders of the Company in a form other than Stock (excepting normal cash dividends) that has a material effect on the Fair Market Value of shares of Stock, appropriate and proportionate adjustments shall be made in the number and kind of shares subject to the Plan and to any outstanding Awards, in the Award limits set forth in Section 5.4, and in the exercise or purchase price per share under any outstanding Award in order to prevent dilution or enlargement of Participants  rights under the Plan.  For purposes of the foregoing, conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be treated as  effected without receipt of consideration by the Company.   If a majority of the shares which are of the same class as the shares that are subject to outstanding Awards are exchanged for, converted into, or otherwise become (whether or not pursuant to an Ownership Change Event) shares of another corporation (the      New Shares     ), the Committee may unilaterally amend the outstanding Awards to provide that such Awards are for New Shares.  In the event of any such amendment, the number of shares subject to, and the exercise or purchase price per share of, the outstanding Awards shall be adjusted in a fair and equitable manner as determined by the Committee, in its discretion.  Any fractional share resulting from an adjustment pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be rounded down to the nearest whole number, and in no event may the exercise or purchase price under any Award be decreased to an amount less than the par value, if any, of the stock subject to such Award.  The Committee in its discretion, may also make such adjustments in the terms of any Award to reflect, or related to, such changes in the capital structure of the Company or distributions as it deems appropriate, including modification of Performance Goals, Performance Award Formulas and Performance Periods.  The adjustments determined by the Committee pursuant to this Section 4.4 shall be final, binding and conclusive. 
  The Committee may, without affecting the number of shares of Stock reserved or available hereunder, authorize the issuance or assumption of benefits under this Plan in connection with any merger, consolidation, acquisition of property or stock, or reorganization upon such terms and conditions as it may deem appropriate, subject to compliance with Section 409A and any other applicable provisions of the Code. 
  5.        ELIGIBILITY AND AWARD LIMITATIONS  . 
  5.1        Persons Eligible for Awards.    Awards may be granted only to Employees, Consultants and Directors.  Nonemployee Director Awards may be granted only to persons who, at the time of grant, are Nonemployee Directors. 
  5.2        Participation.    Awards are granted solely at the discretion of the Committee.  Eligible persons may be granted more than one Award.  However  ,   eligibility in accordance with this Section shall not entitle any person to be granted an Award, or, having been granted an Award, to be granted an additional Award. 
  5.3        Incentive Stock Option Limitations. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (k)        Persons Eligible.    An Incentive Stock Option may be granted only to a person who, on the effective date of grant, is an Employee of the Company, a Parent Corporation or a Subsidiary Corporation (each being an      ISO-Qualifying Corporation     ).  Any person who is not an Employee of an ISO-Qualifying Corporation on the effective date of the grant of an Option to such person may be granted only a Nonstatutory Stock Option. 
  (l)        Fair Market Value Limitation.    To the extent that options designated as Incentive Stock Options (granted under all stock option plans of the Participating Company Group, including the Plan) become exercisable by a Participant for the first time during any calendar year for stock having a Fair Market Value greater than One Hundred Thousand Dollars ($100,000), the portion of such options which exceeds such amount shall be treated as Nonstatutory Stock Options.  For purposes of this Section, options designated as Incentive Stock Options shall be taken into account in the order in which they were granted, and the Fair Market Value of stock shall be determined as of the time the option with respect to such stock is granted.  If the Code is amended to provide for a limitation different from that set forth in this Section, such different limitation shall be deemed incorporated herein effective as of the date and with respect to such Options as required or permitted by such amendment to the Code.  If an Option is treated as an Incentive Stock Option in part and as a Nonstatutory Stock Option in part by reason of the limitation set forth in this Section, the Participant may designate which portion of such Option the Participant is exercising.  In the absence of such designation, the Participant shall be deemed to have exercised the Incentive Stock Option portion of the Option first.  Upon exercise, shares issued pursuant to each such portion shall be separately identified. 
  5.4        Award Limits. 
  (a)        Maximum Number of Shares Issuable Pursuant to Incentive Stock Options.    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to the exercise of Incentive Stock Options shall not exceed six million (6,000,000) shares.  The maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan pursuant to all Awards other than Incentive Stock Options shall be the number of shares determined in accordance with Section 4.1, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.2, Section 4.3 and Section 4.4 and further subject to the limitation set forth in Section 5.4(b) below. 
  (b)        Aggregate Limit on Full Value Awards.    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, the number of shares issued under the Plan pursuant to the exercise or settlement of Full Value Awards shall not exceed the sum of (i) six million (6,000,000) and (ii) the aggregate number of shares subject to full value awards granted pursuant to a Predecessor Plan which revert to the Plan in accordance with Section 4.2(a) or 4.2(b). 
  (c)        Limit on Full Value Awards without Minimum Vesting.    Except with respect to a maximum of five percent (5%) of the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan, as provided in Section 4.1, Full Value Awards which vest on the basis of the Participant s continued Service shall provide for pro rata vesting over a period of not less than three (3) years, and Full Value Awards which vest on the basis of the attainment of performance goals shall provide for a performance period of not less than twelve  

Exhibit 10.18 

   (12) months.  The foregoing limitations shall not preclude the acceleration of vesting of any such Award upon the death, disability or termination of Service of the Participant or upon or following a Change in Control, as determined by the Committee in its discretion. 
  (d)        Section 162(m) Award Limits.    The following limits shall apply to the grant of any Award if, at the time of grant, the Company is a  publicly held corporation  within the meaning of Section 162(m). 
  (i)        Options and SARs.    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Options or Freestanding SARs which in the aggregate are for more than the lesser of (1) seven hundred fifty thousand (750,000) shares or (2) one percent (1%) of the number of shares of Stock issued and outstanding as reported in the most recent periodic report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
  (ii)        Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Awards.    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Restricted Stock Awards or Restricted Stock Unit Awards, subject to Vesting Conditions based on the attainment of Performance Goals, for more than the lesser of (1) seven hundred fifty thousand (750,000) shares or (2) one percent (1%) of the number of shares of Stock issued and outstanding as reported in the most recent periodic report filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
  (iii)        Performance Awards.    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Employee shall be granted (1) Performance Shares which could result in such Employee receiving more than five hundred thousand (500,000) shares for each full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Award, or (2) Performance Units which could result in such Employee receiving more than five million dollars ($5,000,000) for each full fiscal year of the Company contained in the Performance Period for such Award.  No Participant may be granted more than one Performance Award for the same Performance Period. 
  (e)        Nonemployee Director Award Limits.    Subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, no Nonemployee Director may be granted within any fiscal year of the Company one or more Nonemployee Director Awards for more than 5,000 shares subject to Full Value Awards or 12,000 shares subject to Options or SARs; provided, however, that the foregoing annual limit shall be increased by one or more of the following additions, as applicable: 
  (i)        in the fiscal year in which the Nonemployee Director is first appointed or elected to the Board as a Nonemployee Director, an additional 7,000 shares subject to Full Value Awards or 17,000 shares subject to Options or SARs; and 
  (ii)        in any fiscal year for each committee of the Board on which the Nonemployee Director is then serving, an additional 600 shares subject to Full Value Awards or 1,500 shares subject to Options or SARs. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   6.        STOCK OPTIONS  . 
  Options shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock covered thereby, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements evidencing Options may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions: 
  6.1        Exercise Price  .    The exercise price for each Option shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option and (b) no Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Owner shall have an exercise price per share less than one hundred ten percent (110%) of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the Option.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option (whether an Incentive Stock Option or a Nonstatutory Stock Option) may be granted with an exercise price lower than the minimum exercise price set forth above if such Option is granted pursuant to an assumption or substitution for another option in a manner qualifying under the provisions of Section 424(a) of the Code. 
  6.2        Exercisability and Term of Options  .    Options shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option; provided, however, that (a) no Option shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such Option and (b) no Incentive Stock Option granted to a Ten Percent Owner shall be exercisable after the expiration of five (5) years after the effective date of grant of such Option.  Subject to the foregoing, unless otherwise specified by the Committee in the grant of an Option, each Option shall terminate ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of the Option, unless earlier terminated in accordance with its provisions. 
  6.3        Payment of Exercise Price. 
  (f)        Forms of Consideration Authorized.    Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the exercise price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Option shall be made (i) in cash, by check or in cash equivalent, (ii) by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock owned by the Participant having a Fair Market Value not less than the exercise price, (iii) by delivery of a properly executed notice of exercise together with irrevocable instructions to a broker providing for the assignment to the Company of the proceeds of a sale or loan with respect to some or all of the shares being acquired upon the exercise of the Option (including, without limitation, through an exercise complying with the provisions of Regulation T as promulgated from time to time by the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System) (a      Cashless Exercise     ), (iv) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, or (v) by any combination thereof.  The Committee may at any time or from time to time grant Options which do not permit all of the foregoing forms of consideration to be used in payment of the exercise price or which otherwise restrict one or more forms of consideration. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (g)        Limitations on Forms of Consideration. 
  (i)        Tender of Stock.    Notwithstanding the foregoing, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock to the extent such tender or attestation would constitute a violation of the provisions of any law, regulation or agreement restricting the redemption of the Company s stock.  Unless otherwise provided by the Committee, an Option may not be exercised by tender to the Company, or attestation to the ownership, of shares of Stock unless such shares either have been owned by the Participant for more than six (6) months (or such other period, if any, as the Committee may permit) and not used for another Option exercise by attestation during such period, or were not acquired, directly or indirectly, from the Company. 
  (ii)        Cashless Exercise.    The Company reserves, at any and all times, the right, in the Company s sole and absolute discretion, to establish, decline to approve or terminate any program or procedures for the exercise of Options by means of a Cashless Exercise, including with respect to one or more Participants specified by the Company notwithstanding that such program or procedures may be available to other Participants. 
  6.4        Effect of Termination of Service. 
  (a)        Option Exercisability  .    Subject to earlier termination of the Option as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee, an Option shall terminate immediately upon the Participant s termination of Service to the extent that it is then unvested and shall be exercisable after the Participant s termination of Service to the extent it is then vested only during the applicable time period determined in accordance with this Section and thereafter shall terminate: 
  (i)        Disability.    If the Participant s Service terminates because of the Disability of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for vested shares on the date on which the Participant s Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant (or the Participant s guardian or legal representative) at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant s Service terminated, but in any event no later than the date of expiration of the Option s term as set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option (the      Option Expiration Date     ). 
  (ii)        Death.    If the Participant s Service terminates because of the death of the Participant, the Option, to the extent unexercised and exercisable for vested shares on the date on which the Participant s Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant s legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the Option by reason of the Participant s death at any time prior to the expiration of twelve (12) months after the date on which the Participant s Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date.  The Participant s Service shall be deemed to have terminated on account of death if the Participant dies within three (3) months after the Participant s termination of Service. 
  (iii)        Other Termination of Service.    If the Participant s Service terminates for any reason, except Disability or death, the Option, to the extent unexercised and  

Exhibit 10.18 

   exercisable for vested shares on the date on which the Participant s Service terminated, may be exercised by the Participant at any time prior to the expiration of three (3) months after the date on which the Participant s Service terminated, but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. 
  (b)        Extension if Exercise Prevented by Law  .    Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the exercise of an Option within the applicable time periods set forth in Section 6.4(a) is prevented by the provisions of Section 15 below, the Option shall remain exercisable until the later of (i) thirty (30) days after the date such exercise first would no longer be prevented by such provisions or (ii) the end of the applicable time period under Section 6.4(a), but in any event no later than the Option Expiration Date. 
  6.5        Transferability of Options.    During the lifetime of the Participant, an Option shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant s guardian or legal representative.  An Option shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Option, a Nonstatutory Stock Option shall be assignable or transferable subject to the applicable limitations, if any, described in the General Instructions to Form S 8 under the Securities Act. 
  7.        STOCK APPRECIATION RIGHTS  . 
  Stock Appreciation Rights shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements evidencing SARs may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions: 
  7.1        Types of SARs Authorized.    SARs may be granted in tandem with all or any portion of a related Option (a      Tandem SAR     ) or may be granted independently of any Option (a      Freestanding SAR     ).  A Tandem SAR may only be granted concurrently with the grant of the related Option. 
  7.2        Exercise Price.    The exercise price for each SAR shall be established in the discretion of the Committee; provided, however, that (a) the exercise price per share subject to a Tandem SAR shall be the exercise price per share under the related Option and (b) the exercise price per share subject to a Freestanding SAR shall be not less than the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the effective date of grant of the SAR. 
  7.3        Exercisability and Term of SARs. 
  (c)        Tandem SARs.    Tandem SARs shall be exercisable only at the time and to the extent, and only to the extent, that the related Option is exercisable, subject to such provisions as the Committee may specify where the Tandem SAR is granted with respect to less  

Exhibit 10.18 

   than the full number of shares of Stock subject to the related Option.  The Committee may, in its discretion, provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Tandem SAR that such SAR may not be exercised without the advance approval of the Company and, if such approval is not given, then the Option shall nevertheless remain exercisable in accordance with its terms.  A Tandem SAR shall terminate and cease to be exercisable no later than the date on which the related Option expires or is terminated or canceled.  Upon the exercise of a Tandem SAR with respect to some or all of the shares subject to such SAR, the related Option shall be canceled automatically as to the number of shares with respect to which the Tandem SAR was exercised.  Upon the exercise of an Option related to a Tandem SAR as to some or all of the shares subject to such Option, the related Tandem SAR shall be canceled automatically as to the number of shares with respect to which the related Option was exercised. 
  (d)        Freestanding SARs.    Freestanding SARs shall be exercisable at such time or times, or upon such event or events, and subject to such terms, conditions, performance criteria and restrictions as shall be determined by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such SAR; provided, however, that no Freestanding SAR shall be exercisable after the expiration of ten (10) years after the effective date of grant of such SAR. 
  7.4        Exercise of SARs.    Upon the exercise (or deemed exercise pursuant to Section 7.5) of an SAR, the Participant (or the Participant s legal representative or other person who acquired the right to exercise the SAR by reason of the Participant s death) shall be entitled to receive payment of an amount for each share with respect to which the SAR is exercised equal to the excess, if any, of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR over the exercise price.  Payment of such amount shall be made (a) in the case of a Tandem SAR, solely in shares of Stock in a lump sum upon the date of exercise of the SAR and (b) in the case of a Freestanding SAR, in cash, shares of Stock, or any combination thereof as determined by the Committee, in a lump sum upon the date of exercise of the SAR.  When payment is to be made in shares of Stock, the number of shares to be issued shall be determined on the basis of the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock on the date of exercise of the SAR.  For purposes of Section 7, an SAR shall be deemed exercised on the date on which the Company receives notice of exercise from the Participant or as otherwise provided in Section 7.5. 
  7.5        Deemed Exercise of SARs.    If, on the date on which an SAR would otherwise terminate or expire, the SAR by its terms remains exercisable immediately prior to such termination or expiration and, if so exercised, would result in a payment to the holder of such SAR, then any portion of such SAR which has not previously been exercised shall automatically be deemed to be exercised as of such date with respect to such portion. 
  7.6        Effect of Termination of Service.    Subject to earlier termination of the SAR as otherwise provided herein and unless otherwise provided by the Committee, an SAR shall be exercisable after a Participant s termination of Service only to the extent and during the applicable time period determined in accordance with Section 6.4 (treating the SAR as if it were an Option) and thereafter shall terminate. 
  7.7        Transferability of SARs.    During the lifetime of the Participant, an SAR shall be exercisable only by the Participant or the Participant s guardian or legal representative.  An  

Exhibit 10.18 

   SAR shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the extent permitted by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award, a Tandem SAR related to a Nonstatutory Stock Option or a Freestanding SAR shall be assignable or transferable subject to the applicable limitations, if any, described in the General Instructions to Form S 8 under the Securities Act. 
  8.        RESTRICTED STOCK AWARDS  . 
  Restricted Stock Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying whether the Award is a Restricted Stock Bonus or a Restricted Stock Purchase Right and the number of shares of Stock subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions: 
  8.1        Types of Restricted Stock Awards Authorized.    Restricted Stock Awards may be granted in the form of either a Restricted Stock Bonus or a Restricted Stock Purchase Right.  Restricted Stock Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 10.4.  If either the grant of or satisfaction of Vesting Conditions applicable to a Restricted Stock Award is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 10.3 through 10.5(a). 
  8.2        Purchase Price.    The purchase price for shares of Stock issuable under each Restricted Stock Purchase Right shall be established by the Committee in its discretion.  No monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding) shall be required as a condition of receiving shares of Stock pursuant to a Restricted Stock Bonus, the consideration for which shall be services actually rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock subject to a Restricted Stock Award. 
  8.3        Purchase Period.    A Restricted Stock Purchase Right shall be exercisable within a period established by the Committee, which shall in no event exceed thirty (30) days from the effective date of the grant of the Restricted Stock Purchase Right. 
  8.4        Payment of Purchase Price.    Except as otherwise provided below, payment of the purchase price for the number of shares of Stock being purchased pursuant to any Restricted Stock Purchase Right shall be made (a) in cash, by check or in cash equivalent, (b) by such other consideration as may be approved by the Committee from time to time to the extent permitted by applicable law, or (c) by any combination thereof. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   8.5        Vesting and Restrictions on Transfer.    Subject to Section 5.4(c), shares issued pursuant to any Restricted Stock Award may (but need not) be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 10.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.  During any period in which shares acquired pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award remain subject to Vesting Conditions, such shares may not be sold, exchanged, transferred, pledged, assigned or otherwise disposed of other than pursuant to an Ownership Change Event or as provided in Section 8.8.  The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Award that, if the satisfaction of Vesting Conditions with respect to any shares subject to such Restricted Stock Award would otherwise occur on a day on which the sale of such shares would violate the provisions of the Insider Trading Policy, then satisfaction of the Vesting Conditions automatically shall be determined on the next trading day on which the sale of such shares would not violate the Insider Trading Policy.  Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions. 
  8.6        Voting Rights; Dividends and Distributions.    Except as provided in this Section, Section 8.5 and any Award Agreement, during any period in which shares acquired pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award remain subject to Vesting Conditions, the Participant shall have all of the rights of a stockholder of the Company holding shares of Stock, including the right to vote such shares and to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such shares; provided, however, that the Participant shall, at the discretion of the Company, be obligated to promptly repay to the Company upon termination of the Participant s Service any such dividends and other distributions paid to the Participant in cash with respect to shares that remain subject to Vesting Conditions at the time of such termination of Service.  In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant is entitled by reason of the Participant s Restricted Stock Award shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as the shares subject to the Restricted Stock Award with respect to which such dividends or distributions were paid or adjustments were made. 
  8.7        Effect of Termination of Service.    Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in the Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Award, if a Participant s Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant s death or disability), then (a) the Company shall have the option to repurchase for the purchase price paid by the Participant any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Restricted Stock Purchase Right which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant s termination of Service and (b) the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any shares acquired by the Participant pursuant to a Restricted Stock Bonus which remain subject to Vesting  

Exhibit 10.18 

   Conditions as of the date of the Participant s termination of Service.  The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company. 
  8.8        Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Award Rights.    Rights to acquire shares of Stock pursuant to a Restricted Stock Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant s beneficiary, except transfer by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant s guardian or legal representative. 
  9.        RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARDS  . 
  Restricted Stock Unit Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements specifying the number of Restricted Stock Units subject to the Award, in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements evidencing Restricted Stock Units may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions: 
  9.1        Grant of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.    Restricted Stock Unit Awards may be granted upon such conditions as the Committee shall determine, including, without limitation, upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals described in Section 10.4.  If either the grant of a Restricted Stock Unit Award or the Vesting Conditions with respect to such Award is to be contingent upon the attainment of one or more Performance Goals, the Committee shall follow procedures substantially equivalent to those set forth in Sections 10.3 through 10.5(a). 
  9.2        Purchase Price.     No monetary payment (other than applicable tax withholding, if any) shall be required as a condition of receiving a Restricted Stock Unit Award, the consideration for which shall be services actually rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if required by applicable state corporate law, the Participant shall furnish consideration in the form of cash or past services rendered to a Participating Company or for its benefit having a value not less than the par value of the shares of Stock issued upon settlement of the Restricted Stock Unit Award. 
  9.3        Vesting.    Subject to Section 5.4(c), Restricted Stock Unit Awards may (but need not) be made subject to Vesting Conditions based upon the satisfaction of such Service requirements, conditions, restrictions or performance criteria, including, without limitation, Performance Goals as described in Section 10.4, as shall be established by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award.  The Committee, in its discretion, may provide in any Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award that, if the satisfaction of Vesting Conditions with respect to any shares subject to the Award would otherwise occur on a day on which the sale of such shares would violate the provisions of the Insider Trading Policy, then the satisfaction of the Vesting Conditions automatically shall be determined on the first to occur of (a) the next trading day on which the sale of such shares would not violate the Insider Trading Policy or (b) the later of (i) last day of the calendar year in  

Exhibit 10.18 

   which the original vesting date occurred or (ii) the last day of the Company s taxable year in which the original vesting date occurred. 
  9.4        Voting Rights, Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.    Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Restricted Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Restricted Stock Unit Award that the Participant shall be entitled to Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date such Award is granted and ending, with respect to each share subject to the Award, on the earlier of the date the Award is settled or the date on which it is terminated.  Such Dividend Equivalent Rights, if any, shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Restricted Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock.  The number of additional Restricted Stock Units (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on such date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Restricted Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date.  Such additional Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time as the Restricted Stock Units originally subject to the Restricted Stock Unit Award.  In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant s Restricted Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would be entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Vesting Conditions as are applicable to the Award. 
  9.5        Effect of Termination of Service.    Unless otherwise provided by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing a Restricted Stock Unit Award, if a Participant s Service terminates for any reason, whether voluntary or involuntary (including the Participant s death or disability), then the Participant shall forfeit to the Company any Restricted Stock Units pursuant to the Award which remain subject to Vesting Conditions as of the date of the Participant s termination of Service. 
  9.6        Settlement of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.    The Company shall issue to a Participant on the date on which Restricted Stock Units subject to the Participant s Restricted Stock Unit Award vest or on such other date determined by the Committee, in its discretion, and set forth in the Award Agreement one (1) share of Stock (and/or any other new, substituted or additional securities or other property pursuant to an adjustment described in Section 9.4) for each Restricted Stock Unit then becoming vested or otherwise to be settled on such date, subject to the withholding of applicable taxes, if any.  If permitted by the Committee, the Participant may elect, consistent with the requirements of Section 409A, to defer receipt of all or any portion of the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this  

Exhibit 10.18 

   Section, and such deferred issuance date(s) and amount(s) elected by the Participant shall be set forth in the Award Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide for settlement of any Restricted Stock Unit Award by payment to the Participant in cash of an amount equal to the Fair Market Value on the payment date of the shares of Stock or other property otherwise issuable to the Participant pursuant to this Section. 
  9.7        Nontransferability of Restricted Stock Unit Awards.    The right to receive shares pursuant to a Restricted Stock Unit Award shall not be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  All rights with respect to a Restricted Stock Unit Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant s guardian or legal representative. 
  10.        PERFORMANCE AWARDS  . 
  Performance Awards shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements evidencing Performance Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions: 
  10.1        Types of Performance Awards Authorized.    Performance Awards may be granted in the form of either Performance Shares or Performance Units.  Each Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award shall specify the number of Performance Shares or Performance Units subject thereto, the Performance Award Formula, the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Period applicable to the Award, and the other terms, conditions and restrictions of the Award. 
  10.2        Initial Value of Performance Shares and Performance Units.    Unless otherwise provided by the Committee in granting a Performance Award, each Performance Share shall have an initial monetary value equal to the Fair Market Value of one (1) share of Stock, subject to adjustment as provided in Section 4.4, on the effective date of grant of the Performance Share, and each Performance Unit shall have an initial monetary value established by the Committee at the time of grant.  The final value payable to the Participant in settlement of a Performance Award determined on the basis of the applicable Performance Award Formula will depend on the extent to which Performance Goals established by the Committee are attained within the applicable Performance Period established by the Committee. 
  10.3        Establishment of Performance Period, Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula.    In granting each Performance Award, the Committee shall establish in writing the applicable Performance Period (subject to Section 5.4(c)), Performance Award Formula and one or more Performance Goals which, when measured at the end of the Performance Period, shall determine on the basis of the Performance Award Formula the final value of the Performance Award to be paid to the Participant.  Unless otherwise permitted in compliance with the requirements under Section 162(m) with respect to each Performance Award intended to result in the payment of Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee shall  

Exhibit 10.18 

   establish the Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula applicable to each Performance Award no later than the earlier of (a) the date ninety (90) days after the commencement of the applicable Performance Period or (b) the date on which 25% of the Performance Period has elapsed, and, in any event, at a time when the outcome of the Performance Goals remains substantially uncertain.  Once established, the Performance Goals and Performance Award Formula applicable to a Covered Employee shall not be changed during the Performance Period.  The Company shall notify each Participant granted a Performance Award of the terms of such Award, including the Performance Period, Performance Goal(s) and Performance Award Formula. 
  10.4        Measurement of Performance Goals.    Performance Goals shall be established by the Committee on the basis of targets to be attained (     Performance Targets     ) with respect to one or more measures of business or financial performance (each, a      Performance Measure     ), subject to the following: 
  (a)        Performance Measures.    Performance Measures shall have the same meanings as used in the Company s financial statements, or, if such terms are not used in the Company s financial statements, they shall have the meaning applied pursuant to generally accepted accounting principles, or as used generally in the Company s industry.  Performance Measures shall be calculated with respect to the Company and each Subsidiary Corporation consolidated therewith for financial reporting purposes or such division or other business unit as may be selected by the Committee.  For purposes of the Plan, the Performance Measures applicable to a Performance Award shall be calculated in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, if applicable, but prior to the accrual or payment of any Performance Award for the same Performance Period and excluding the effect (whether positive or negative) of any change in accounting standards or any extraordinary, unusual or nonrecurring item, as determined by the Committee, occurring after the establishment of the Performance Goals applicable to the Performance Award.  Each such adjustment, if any, shall be made solely for the purpose of providing a consistent basis from period to period for the calculation of Performance Measures in order to prevent the dilution or enlargement of the Participant s rights with respect to a Performance Award.  Performance Measures may be one or more of the following, as determined by the Committee: 
  (i)        sales revenue; 
  (ii)        gross margin; 
  (iii)        operating margin; 
  (iv)        operating income; 
  (v)        pre-tax profit; 
  (vi)        earnings before interest, taxes and depreciation and amortization; 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (vii)        net income; 
  (viii)        expenses; 
  (ix)        the market price of the Stock; 
  (x)        earnings per share; 
  (xi)        return on stockholder equity; 
  (xii)        return on capital; 
  (xiii)        return on net assets; 
  (xiv)        economic value added; and 
  (xv)        market share. 
  (b)        Performance Targets.    Performance Targets may include a minimum, maximum, target level and intermediate levels of performance, with the final value of a Performance Award determined under the applicable Performance Award Formula by the level attained during the applicable Performance Period.  A Performance Target may be stated as an absolute value or as a value determined relative to an index, budget or other standard selected by the Committee. 
  10.5        Settlement of Performance Awards. 
  (a)        Determination of Final Value.    As soon as practicable following the completion of the Performance Period applicable to a Performance Award, the Committee shall certify in writing the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained and the resulting final value of the Award earned by the Participant and to be paid upon its settlement in accordance with the applicable Performance Award Formula. 
  (b)        Discretionary Adjustment of Award Formula.    In its discretion, the Committee may, either at the time it grants a Performance Award or at any time thereafter, provide for the positive or negative adjustment of the Performance Award Formula applicable to a Performance Award granted to any Participant who is not a Covered Employee to reflect such Participant s individual performance in his or her position with the Company or such other factors as the Committee may determine.  If permitted under a Covered Employee s Award Agreement, the Committee shall have the discretion, on the basis of such criteria as may be established by the Committee, to reduce some or all of the value of the Performance Award that would otherwise be paid to the Covered Employee upon its settlement notwithstanding the attainment of any Performance Goal and the resulting value of the Performance Award determined in accordance with the Performance Award Formula.  No such reduction may result in an increase in the amount payable upon settlement of another Participant s Performance Award that is intended to result in Performance-Based Compensation. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (c)        Notice to Participants.    As soon as practicable following the Committee s determination and certification in accordance with Sections 10.5(a) and (b), the Company shall notify each Participant of the determination of the Committee. 
  (d)        Payment in Settlement of Performance Awards.    As soon as practicable following the Committee s determination and certification in accordance with Sections 10.5(a) and (b), but in any event within the Short-Term Deferral Period described in Section 16.1 (except as otherwise provided below or consistent with the requirements of Section 409A), payment shall be made to each eligible Participant (or such Participant s legal representative or other person who acquired the right to receive such payment by reason of the Participant s death) of the final value of the Participant s Performance Award.  Payment of such amount shall be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee.  Unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award, payment shall be made in a lump sum.  If permitted by the Committee, the Participant may elect, consistent with the requirements of Section 409A, to defer receipt of all or any portion of the payment to be made to Participant pursuant to this Section, and such deferred payment date(s) elected by the Participant shall be set forth in the Award Agreement.  If any payment is to be made on a deferred basis, the Committee may, but shall not be obligated to, provide for the payment during the deferral period of Dividend Equivalent Rights or interest. 
  (e)        Provisions Applicable to Payment in Shares.    If payment is to be made in shares of Stock, the number of such shares shall be determined by dividing the final value of the Performance Award by the Fair Market Value of a share of Stock determined by the method specified in the Award Agreement.  Shares of Stock issued in payment of any Performance Award may be fully vested and freely transferable shares or may be shares of Stock subject to Vesting Conditions as provided in Section 8.5.  Any shares subject to Vesting Conditions shall be evidenced by an appropriate Award Agreement and shall be subject to the provisions of Sections 8.5 through 8.8 above. 
  10.6        Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions.    Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Performance Share Awards until the date of the issuance of such shares, if any (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  However, the Committee, in its discretion, may provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Performance Share Award that the Participant shall be entitled to Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to the payment of cash dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date the Award is granted and ending, with respect to each share subject to the Award, on the earlier of the date on which the Performance Shares are settled or the date on which they are forfeited.  Such Dividend Equivalent Rights, if any, shall be credited to the Participant in the form of additional whole Performance Shares as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock.  The number of additional Performance Shares (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (a) the amount of cash dividends paid on the dividend payment date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Performance Shares previously credited to the Participant by (b) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date.  Dividend Equivalent Rights may be paid  

Exhibit 10.18 

   currently or may be accumulated and paid to the extent that Performance Shares become nonforfeitable, as determined by the Committee.  Settlement of Dividend Equivalent Rights may be made in cash, shares of Stock, or a combination thereof as determined by the Committee, and may be paid on the same basis as settlement of the related Performance Share as provided in Section 10.5.  Dividend Equivalent Rights shall not be paid with respect to Performance Units.  In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant s Performance Share Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Performance Share Award, and all such new, substituted or additional securities or other property shall be immediately subject to the same Performance Goals as are applicable to the Award. 
  10.7        Effect of Termination of Service.    Unless otherwise provided by the Committee and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing a Performance Award, the effect of a Participant s termination of Service on the Performance Award shall be as follows: 
  (a)        Death or Disability.    If the Participant s Service terminates because of the death or Disability of the Participant before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, the final value of the Participant s Performance Award shall be determined by the extent to which the applicable Performance Goals have been attained with respect to the entire Performance Period and shall be prorated based on the number of months of the Participant s Service during the Performance Period.  Payment shall be made following the end of the Performance Period in any manner permitted by Section 10.5. 
  (b)        Other Termination of Service.    If the Participant s Service terminates for any reason except death or Disability before the completion of the Performance Period applicable to the Performance Award, such Award shall be forfeited in its entirety; provided, however, that in the event of an involuntary termination of the Participant s Service, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may waive the automatic forfeiture of all or any portion of any such Award (e.g., by determining the final value of the Participant s Performance Award in the manner provided by Section 10.7(a)) and provide for payment following the end of the Performance Period in any manner permitted by Section 10.5. 
  10.8        Nontransferability of Performance Awards.    Prior to settlement in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, no Performance Award shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, exchange, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or the Participant s beneficiary, except transfer by will or by the laws of descent and distribution.  All rights with respect to a Performance Award granted to a Participant hereunder shall be exercisable during his or her lifetime only by such Participant or the Participant s guardian or legal representative. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   11.        DEFERRED COMPENSATION AWARDS  . 
  11.1        Establishment of Deferred Compensation Award Programs.    This Section 11 shall not be effective unless and until the Committee determines to establish a program pursuant to this Section.  The Committee, in its discretion and upon such terms and conditions as it may determine, consistent with the requirements of Section 409A, may establish one or more programs pursuant to the Plan under which: 
  (a)        Elective Cash Compensation Reduction Awards.    Participants designated by the Committee who are Officers, Directors or otherwise among a select group of management or highly compensated Employees may irrevocably elect, prior to a date specified by the Committee in compliance with Section 409A, to reduce such Participant s compensation otherwise payable in cash (subject to any minimum or maximum reductions imposed by the Committee) and to be granted automatically at such time or times as specified by the Committee one or more Awards of Stock Units with respect to such numbers of shares of Stock as determined in accordance with the rules of the program established by the Committee and having such other terms and conditions as established by the Committee. 
  (b)        Stock Issuance Deferral Awards.    Participants designated by the Committee who are Officers, Directors or otherwise among a select group of management or highly compensated Employees may irrevocably elect, prior to a date specified by the Committee in compliance with Section 409A, to be granted automatically an Award of Stock Units with respect to such number of shares of Stock and upon such other terms and conditions as established by the Committee in lieu of: 
  (iii)        shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the exercise of an Option; 
  (iv)        cash or shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the exercise of an SAR; or 
  (v)        cash or shares of Stock otherwise issuable to such Participant upon the settlement of a Performance Award. 
  11.2        Terms and Conditions of Deferred Compensation Awards.    Deferred Compensation Awards granted pursuant to this Section 11 shall be evidenced by Award Agreements in such form as the Committee shall from time to time establish.  Award Agreements evidencing Deferred Compensation Awards may incorporate all or any of the terms of the Plan by reference and, except as provided below, shall comply with and be subject to the following terms and conditions of Section 9. 
  (a)        Voting Rights; Dividend Equivalent Rights and Distributions  .    Participants shall have no voting rights with respect to shares of Stock represented by Stock Units until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  However, a Participant shall be entitled to Dividend Equivalent Rights with respect to the payment of cash  

Exhibit 10.18 

   dividends on Stock during the period beginning on the date the Stock Units are granted automatically to the Participant and ending on the earlier of the date on which such Stock Units are settled or the date on which they are forfeited.  Such Dividend Equivalent Rights shall be paid by crediting the Participant with additional whole Stock Units as of the date of payment of such cash dividends on Stock.  The number of additional Stock Units (rounded to the nearest whole number) to be so credited shall be determined by dividing (A) the amount of cash dividends paid on the dividend payment date with respect to the number of shares of Stock represented by the Stock Units previously credited to the Participant by (B) the Fair Market Value per share of Stock on such date.  Such additional Stock Units shall be subject to the same terms and conditions and shall be settled in the same manner and at the same time as the Stock Units originally subject to the Stock Unit Award.  In the event of a dividend or distribution paid in shares of Stock or other property or any other adjustment made upon a change in the capital structure of the Company as described in Section 4.4, appropriate adjustments shall be made in the Participant s Stock Unit Award so that it represents the right to receive upon settlement any and all new, substituted or additional securities or other property (other than normal cash dividends) to which the Participant would entitled by reason of the shares of Stock issuable upon settlement of the Award. 
  (b)        Settlement of Stock Unit Awards.    A Participant electing to receive an Award of Stock Units pursuant to this Section 11 shall specify at the time of such election a settlement date with respect to such Award in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A.  The Company shall issue to the Participant on the earlier of the settlement date elected by the Participant or the date of termination of the Participant s Service, a number of whole shares of Stock equal to the number of whole Stock Units subject to the Stock Unit Award.  Such shares of Stock shall be fully vested, and the Participant shall not be required to pay any additional consideration (other than applicable tax withholding) to acquire such shares. 
  12.        NONEMPLOYEE DIRECTOR AWARDS  . 
  From time to time, the Board or the Committee shall set the amount(s) and type(s) of Nonemployee Director Awards that shall be granted to all Nonemployee Directors on a periodic, nondiscriminatory basis pursuant to the Plan, as well as the additional amount(s) and type(s) of Nonemployee Director Awards, if any, to be awarded, also on a periodic, nondiscriminatory basis, in consideration of one or more of the following: (a) the initial election or appointment of an individual to the Board as a Nonemployee Director and (b) a Nonemployee Director s service on a committee of the Board.  The terms and conditions of each Nonemployee Director Award shall comply with the applicable provisions of the Plan.  Subject to the limits set forth in Section 5.4(b), Section 5.4(c) and Section 5.4(e) and the foregoing, the Board or the Committee shall grant Nonemployee Director Awards having such terms and conditions as it shall from time to time determine. 
  13.        STANDARD FORMS OF AWARD AGREEMENT  . 
  13.1        Award Agreements  .    Each Award shall comply with and be subject to the terms and conditions set forth in the appropriate form of Award Agreement approved by the Committee and as amended from time to time.  No Award or purported Award shall be a valid  

Exhibit 10.18 

   and binding obligation of the Company unless evidenced by a fully executed Award Agreement.  Any Award Agreement may consist of an appropriate form of Notice of Grant and a form of Agreement incorporated therein by reference, or such other form or forms, including electronic media, as the Committee may approve from time to time. 
  13.2        Authority to Vary Terms  .    The Committee shall have the authority from time to time to vary the terms of any standard form of Award Agreement either in connection with the grant or amendment of an individual Award or in connection with the authorization of a new standard form or forms; provided, however, that the terms and conditions of any such new, revised or amended standard form or forms of Award Agreement are not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan. 
  14.        CHANGE IN CONTROL  . 
  14.1        Effect of Change in Control on Awards.    Subject to the requirements and limitations of Section 409A, if applicable, the Committee may provide for any one or more of the following: 
  (f)        Accelerated Vesting.    In its discretion, the Committee may provide in the grant of any Award or at any other time may take such action as it deems appropriate to provide for acceleration of the exercisability, vesting and/or settlement in connection with a Change in Control of each or any outstanding Award or portion thereof and shares acquired pursuant thereto upon such conditions, including termination of the Participant s Service prior to, upon, or following such Change in Control, to such extent as the Committee shall determine. 
  (g)        Assumption, Continuation or Substitution.    In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or other business entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the      Acquiror     ), may, without the consent of any Participant, either assume or continue the Company s rights and obligations under each or any Award or portion thereof outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control or substitute for each or any such outstanding Award or portion thereof a substantially equivalent award with respect to the Acquiror s stock, as applicable.  For purposes of this Section, if so determined by the Committee, in its discretion, an Award denominated in shares of Stock shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the Award confers the right to receive, subject to the terms and conditions of the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement, for each share of Stock subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, other securities or property or a combination thereof) to which a holder of a share of Stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled; provided, however, that if such consideration is not solely common stock of the Acquiror, the Committee may, with the consent of the Acquiror, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise or settlement of the Award, for each share of Stock subject to the Award, to consist solely of common stock of the Acquiror equal in Fair Market Value to the per share consideration received by holders of Stock pursuant to the Change in Control.  Any Award or portion thereof which is neither assumed or continued by the Acquiror in connection with the Change in Control nor exercised or settled as of the time of consummation of the Change in  

Exhibit 10.18 

   Control shall terminate and cease to be outstanding effective as of the time of consummation of the Change in Control. 
  (h)        Cash-Out of Outstanding Stock-Based Awards.    The Committee may, in its discretion and without the consent of any Participant, determine that, upon the occurrence of a Change in Control, each or any Award denominated in shares of Stock or portion thereof outstanding immediately prior to the Change in Control and not previously exercised or settled shall be canceled in exchange for a payment with respect to each vested share (and each unvested share, if so determined by the Committee) of Stock subject to such canceled Award in (i) cash, (ii) stock of the Company or of a corporation or other business entity a party to the Change in Control, or (iii) other property which, in any such case, shall be in an amount having a Fair Market Value equal to the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be paid per share of Stock in the Change in Control, reduced (but not below zero) by the exercise or purchase price per share, if any, under such Award.  In the event such determination is made by the Committee, an Award having an exercise or purchase price per share equal to or greater than the Fair Market Value of the consideration to be paid per share of Stock in the Change in Control may be canceled without payment of consideration to the holder thereof.  Payment pursuant to this Section (reduced by applicable withholding taxes, if any) shall be made to Participants in respect of the vested portions of their canceled Awards as soon as practicable following the date of the Change in Control and in respect of the unvested portions of their canceled Awards in accordance with the vesting schedules applicable to such Awards. 
  14.2        Effect of Change in Control on Nonemployee Director Awards.    Subject to the requirements and limitations of Section 409A, if applicable, in the event of a Change in Control, each outstanding Nonemployee Director Award shall become immediately exercisable and vested in full and, except to the extent assumed, continued or substituted for by the Acquiror, shall be settled effective immediately prior to the time of consummation of the Change in Control. 
  15.        COMPLIANCE WITH SECURITIES LAW  . 
  The grant of Awards and the issuance of shares of Stock pursuant to any Award shall be subject to compliance with all applicable requirements of federal, state and foreign law with respect to such securities and the requirements of any stock exchange or market system upon which the Stock may then be listed.  In addition, no Award may be exercised or shares issued pursuant to an Award unless (a) a registration statement under the Securities Act shall at the time of such exercise or issuance be in effect with respect to the shares issuable pursuant to the Award or (b) in the opinion of legal counsel to the Company, the shares issuable pursuant to the Award may be issued in accordance with the terms of an applicable exemption from the registration requirements of the Securities Act.  The inability of the Company to obtain from any regulatory body having jurisdiction the authority, if any, deemed by the Company s legal counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any shares hereunder shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained.  As a condition to issuance of any Stock, the Company may require the Participant to satisfy any qualifications that may be necessary or  

Exhibit 10.18 

   appropriate, to evidence compliance with any applicable law or regulation and to make any representation or warranty with respect thereto as may be requested by the Company. 
  16.        COMPLIANCE WITH SECTION 409A  . 
  16.1        Awards Subject to Section 409A.    The Company intends that Awards granted pursuant to the Plan shall either be exempt from or comply with Section 409A, and the Plan shall be so construed.  The provisions of this Section 16 shall apply to any Award or portion thereof that constitutes or provides for payment of Section 409A Deferred Compensation.  Such Awards may include, without limitation: 
  (c)        A Nonstatutory Stock Option or SAR that includes any feature for the deferral of compensation other than the deferral of recognition of income until the later of (i) the exercise or disposition of the Award or (ii) the time the stock acquired pursuant to the exercise of the Award first becomes substantially vested. 
  (d)        Any Restricted Stock Unit Award or Performance Award that either (i) provides by its terms for settlement of all or any portion of the Award at a time or upon an event that will or may occur later than the end of the Short-Term Deferral Period (as defined below) or (ii) permits the Participant granted the Award to elect one or more dates or events upon which the Award will be settled after the end of the Short-Term Deferral Period. 
  Subject to the provisions of Section 409A, the term    Short-Term Deferral Period      means the 2  month period ending on the later of (i) the 15th day of the third month following the end of the Participant s taxable year in which the right to payment under applicable portion of the Award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture or (ii) the 15th day of the third month following the end of the Company s taxable year in which the right to payment under the applicable portion of the Award is no longer subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.  For this purpose, the term  substantial risk of forfeiture  shall have the meaning provided by Section 409A. 
  16.2        Deferral and/or Distribution Elections.    Except as otherwise permitted or required by Section 409A, the following rules shall apply to any compensation deferral and/or payment elections (each, an    Election   ) that may be permitted or required by the Committee pursuant to an Award providing Section 409A Deferred Compensation: 
  (a)        Elections must be in writing and specify the amount of the payment in settlement of an Award being deferred, as well as the time and form of payment as permitted by this Plan. 
  (b)        Elections shall be made by the end of the Participant s taxable year prior to the year in which services commence for which an Award may be granted to such Participant. 
  (c)        Elections shall continue in effect until a written revocation or change in Election is received by the Company, except that a written revocation or change in  

Exhibit 10.18 

   Election must be received by the Company prior to the last day for making the Election determined in accordance with paragraph (b) above or as permitted by Section 16.3. 
  16.3        Subsequent Elections  .    Except as otherwise permitted or required by Section 409A, any Award providing Section 409A Deferred Compensation which permits a subsequent Election to delay the payment or change the form of payment in settlement of such Award shall comply with the following requirements: 
  (a)        No subsequent Election may take effect until at least twelve (12) months after the date on which the subsequent Election is made. 
  (b)        Each subsequent Election related to a payment in settlement of an Award not described in Section 16.4(b), 16.4(c) or 16.4(f) must result in a delay of the payment for a period of not less than five (5) years from the date on which such payment would otherwise have been made. 
  (c)        No subsequent Election related to a payment pursuant to Section 16.4(d) shall be made less than twelve (12) months before the date on which such payment would otherwise have been made. 
  (d)        Subsequent Elections shall continue in effect until a written revocation or change in the subsequent Election is received by the Company, except that a written revocation or change in a subsequent Election must be received by the Company prior to the last day for making the subsequent Election determined in accordance the preceding paragraphs of this Section 16.3. 
  16.4        Payments Pursuant to Deferral Elections  .    Except as otherwise permitted or required by Section 409A, an Award providing Section 409A Deferred Compensation must provide for payment in settlement of the Award only upon one or more of the following: 
  (a)        The Participant s separation from service (as defined by Section 409A);  
  (b)        The Participant s becoming Disabled (as defined below);  
  (c)        The Participant s death;  
  (d)        A time or fixed schedule that is either (i) specified by the Committee upon the grant of an Award and set forth in the Award Agreement evidencing such Award or (ii) specified by the Participant in an Election complying with the requirements of Section 16.2 or 16.3, as applicable;  
  (e)        A change in the ownership or effective control or the Company or in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company determined in accordance with Section 409A; or 

Exhibit 10.18 

   (f)        The occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency (as defined by Section 409A). 
  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement to the contrary, to the extent that any amount constituting Section 409A Deferred Compensation would become payable under this Plan by reason of a Change in Control, such amount shall become payable only if the event constituting a Change in Control would also constitute a change in ownership or effective control of the Company or a change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets of the Company within the meaning of Section 409A. 
  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement to the contrary, except as otherwise permitted by Section 409A, no payment pursuant to Section 16.4(a) in settlement of an Award providing for Section 409A Deferred Compensation may be made to a Participant who is a  specified employee  (as defined by Section 409A) as of the date of the Participant s separation from service before the date (the      Delayed Payment Date     ) that is six (6) months after the date of such Participant s separation from service, or, if earlier, the date of the Participant s death.  All such amounts that would, but for this paragraph, become payable prior to the Delayed Payment Date shall be accumulated and paid on the Delayed Payment Date. 
  16.5        Unforeseeable Emergency  .  The Committee shall have the authority to provide in the Award Agreement evidencing any Award providing for Section 409A Deferred Compensation for payment in settlement of all or a portion of such Award in the event that a Participant establishes, to the satisfaction of the Committee, the occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency.  In such event, the amount(s) distributed with respect to such Unforeseeable Emergency cannot exceed the amounts reasonably necessary to satisfy the emergency need plus amounts necessary to pay taxes reasonably anticipated as a result of such distribution(s), after taking into account the extent to which such emergency need is or may be relieved through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, by liquidation of the Participant s assets (to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship) or by cessation of deferrals under the Award.  All distributions with respect to an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be made in a lump sum as soon as practicable following the Committee s determination that an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred. 
  The occurrence of an Unforeseeable Emergency shall be judged and determined by the Committee.  The Committee s decision with respect to whether an Unforeseeable Emergency has occurred and the manner in which, if at all, the payment in settlement of an Award shall be altered or modified, shall be final, conclusive, and not subject to approval or appeal. 
  16.6        Disabled.    The Committee shall have the authority to provide in any Award providing Section 409A Deferred Compensation for payment in settlement of such Award in the event that the Participant becomes Disabled.  A Participant shall be considered  Disabled  if either: 
  (a)        the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be  

Exhibit 10.18 

   expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, or 
  (b)        the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than twelve (12) months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than three (3) months under an accident and health plan covering employees of the Participant s employer. 
  All distributions payable by reason of a Participant becoming Disabled shall be paid in a lump sum or in periodic installments as established by the Participant s Election.  If the Participant has made no Election with respect to distributions upon becoming Disabled, all such distributions shall be paid in a lump sum upon the determination that the Participant has become Disabled. 
  16.7        Death  .  If a Participant dies before complete distribution of amounts payable upon settlement of an Award subject to Section 409A, such undistributed amounts shall be distributed to his or her beneficiary under the distribution method for death established by the Participant s Election upon receipt by the Committee of satisfactory notice and confirmation of the Participant s death.  If the Participant has made no Election with respect to distributions upon death, all such distributions shall be paid in a lump sum upon receipt by the Committee of satisfactory notice and confirmation of the Participant s death. 
  16.8        Prohibition of Acceleration of Payments.    Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan or an Award Agreement to the contrary, this Plan does not permit the acceleration of the time or schedule of any payment under an Award providing Section 409A Deferred Compensation, except as permitted by Section 409A. 
  17.        TAX WITHHOLDING  . 
  17.1        Tax Withholding in General.    The Company shall have the right to deduct from any and all payments made under the Plan, or to require the Participant, through payroll withholding, cash payment or otherwise, to make adequate provision for, the federal, state, local and foreign taxes, if any, required by law to be withheld by any Participating Company with respect to an Award or the shares acquired pursuant thereto.  The Company shall have no obligation to deliver shares of Stock, to release shares of Stock from an escrow established pursuant to an Award Agreement, or to make any payment in cash under the Plan until the Participating Company Group s tax withholding obligations have been satisfied by the Participant. 
  17.2        Withholding in Shares.    The Company shall have the right, but not the obligation, to deduct from the shares of Stock issuable to a Participant upon the exercise or settlement of an Award, or to accept from the Participant the tender of, a number of whole shares of Stock having a Fair Market Value, as determined by the Company, equal to all or any part of the tax withholding obligations of any Participating Company.  The Fair Market Value of any  

Exhibit 10.18 

   shares of Stock withheld or tendered to satisfy any such tax withholding obligations shall not exceed the amount determined by the applicable minimum statutory withholding rates. 
  18.        AMENDMENT OR TERMINATION OF PLAN  . 
  The Committee may amend, suspend or terminate the Plan at any time.  However, without the approval of the Company s stockholders, there shall be (a) no increase in the maximum aggregate number of shares of Stock that may be issued under the Plan (except by operation of the provisions of Section 4.4), (b) no change in the class of persons eligible to receive Incentive Stock Options, and (c) no other amendment of the Plan that would require approval of the Company s stockholders under any applicable law, regulation or rule, including the rules of any stock exchange upon which the Stock may then be listed.  No amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan shall affect any then outstanding Award unless expressly provided by the Committee.  Except as provided by the next sentence, no amendment, suspension or termination of the Plan may adversely affect any then outstanding Award without the consent of the Participant.  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Committee may, in its sole and absolute discretion and without the consent of any Participant, amend the Plan or any Award Agreement, to take effect retroactively or otherwise, as it deems necessary or advisable for the purpose of conforming the Plan or such Award Agreement to any present or future law, regulation or rule applicable to the Plan, including, but not limited to, Section 409A. 
  19.        MISCELLANEOUS PROVISIONS  . 
  19.1        Repurchase Rights  .    Shares issued under the Plan may be subject to one or more repurchase options, or other conditions and restrictions as determined by the Committee in its discretion at the time the Award is granted.  The Company shall have the right to assign at any time any repurchase right it may have, whether or not such right is then exercisable, to one or more persons as may be selected by the Company.  Upon request by the Company, each Participant shall execute any agreement evidencing such transfer restrictions prior to the receipt of shares of Stock hereunder and shall promptly present to the Company any and all certificates representing shares of Stock acquired hereunder for the placement on such certificates of appropriate legends evidencing any such transfer restrictions. 
  19.2        Forfeiture Events.    The Committee may specify in an Award Agreement that the Participant s rights, payments, and benefits with respect to an Award shall be subject to reduction, cancellation, forfeiture, or recoupment upon the occurrence of specified events, in addition to any otherwise applicable vesting or performance conditions of an Award.  Such events may include, but shall not be limited to, termination of Service for Cause or any act by a Participant, whether before or after termination of Service, that would constitute cause for termination of Service. 
  19.3        Provision of Information.    Each Participant shall be given access to information concerning the Company equivalent to that information generally made available to the Company s common stockholders. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   19.4        Rights as Employee, Consultant or Director.    No person, even though eligible pursuant to Section 5, shall have a right to be selected as a Participant, or, having been so selected, to be selected again as a Participant.  Nothing in the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall confer on any Participant a right to remain an Employee, Consultant or Director or interfere with or limit in any way any right of a Participating Company to terminate the Participant s Service at any time.  To the extent that an Employee of a Participating Company other than the Company receives an Award under the Plan, that Award shall in no event be understood or interpreted to mean that the Company is the Employee s employer or that the Employee has an employment relationship with the Company. 
  19.5        Rights as a Stockholder.    A Participant shall have no rights as a stockholder with respect to any shares covered by an Award until the date of the issuance of such shares (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company).  No adjustment shall be made for dividends, distributions or other rights for which the record date is prior to the date such shares are issued, except as provided in Section 4.4 or another provision of the Plan. 
  19.6        Delivery of Title to Shares.    Subject to any governing rules or regulations, the Company shall issue or cause to be issued the shares of Stock acquired pursuant to an Award and shall deliver such shares to or for the benefit of the Participant by means of one or more of the following: (a) by delivering to the Participant evidence of book entry shares of Stock credited to the account of the Participant, (b) by depositing such shares of Stock for the benefit of the Participant with any broker with which the Participant has an account relationship, or (c) by delivering such shares of Stock to the Participant in certificate form. 
  19.7        Fractional Shares.    The Company shall not be required to issue fractional shares upon the exercise or settlement of any Award. 
  19.8        Retirement and Welfare Plans  .  Neither Awards made under this Plan nor shares of Stock or cash paid pursuant to such Awards may be included as  compensation  for purposes of computing the benefits payable to any Participant under any Participating Company s retirement plans (both qualified and non-qualified) or welfare benefit plans unless such other plan expressly provides that such compensation shall be taken into account in computing a Participant s benefit. 
  19.9        Beneficiary Designation.    Subject to local laws and procedures, each Participant may file with the Company a written designation of a beneficiary who is to receive any benefit under the Plan to which the Participant is entitled in the event of such Participant s death before he or she receives any or all of such benefit.  Each designation will revoke all prior designations by the same Participant, shall be in a form prescribed by the Company, and will be effective only when filed by the Participant in writing with the Company during the Participant s lifetime.  If a married Participant designates a beneficiary other than the Participant s spouse, the effectiveness of such designation may be subject to the consent of the Participant s spouse.  If a Participant dies without an effective designation of a beneficiary who is living at the time of the Participant s death, the Company will pay any remaining unpaid benefits to the Participant s legal representative. 

Exhibit 10.18 

   19.10        Severability  .  If any one or more of the provisions (or any part thereof) of this Plan shall be held invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision shall be modified so as to make it valid, legal and enforceable, and the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions (or any part thereof) of the Plan shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 
  19.11        No Constraint on Corporate Action.    Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to: (a) limit, impair, or otherwise affect the Company s or another Participating Company s right or power to make adjustments, reclassifications, reorganizations, or changes of its capital or business structure, or to merge or consolidate, or dissolve, liquidate, sell, or transfer all or any part of its business or assets; or (b) limit the right or power of the Company or another Participating Company to take any action which such entity deems to be necessary or appropriate. 
  19.12        Unfunded Obligation.    Participants shall have the status of general unsecured creditors of the Company.  Any amounts payable to Participants pursuant to the Plan shall be unfunded and unsecured obligations for all purposes, including, without limitation, Title I of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.  No Participating Company shall be required to segregate any monies from its general funds, or to create any trusts, or establish any special accounts with respect to such obligations.  The Company shall retain at all times beneficial ownership of any investments, including trust investments, which the Company may make to fulfill its payment obligations hereunder.  Any investments or the creation or maintenance of any trust or any Participant account shall not create or constitute a trust or fiduciary relationship between the Committee or any Participating Company and a Participant, or otherwise create any vested or beneficial interest in any Participant or the Participant s creditors in any assets of any Participating Company.  The Participants shall have no claim against any Participating Company for any changes in the value of any assets which may be invested or reinvested by the Company with respect to the Plan. 
  19.13        Choice of Law.    Except to the extent governed by applicable federal law, the validity, interpretation, construction and performance of the Plan and each Award Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the State of California, without regard to its conflict of law rules. 

</EX-10.18>

<EX-10.39>
 3
 exhibit1039thirdamendtofer.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.39

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.39 

   THIRD AMENDMENT TO RETIREMENT BENEFIT PACKAGE AGREEMENT 

THE THIRD AMENDMENT TO THE RETIREMENT BENEFIT PACKAGE AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) is made, effective as of January 1, 2016, by Ross Stores, Inc. (the  Company ) and Norman Ferber ( Ferber ).  Ferber and the Company previously entered into a Retirement Benefit Package Agreement, effective June 6, 2010 (attached hereto) and amended effective January 30, 2012 and February 17, 2015, and it is now the intention of Ferber and the Company to amend the Retirement Benefit Package Agreement as set forth below.  Accordingly, the Company and Ferber hereby agree as follows: 
    
           I. 
    Paragraph 1.1(a) of the Retirement Benefit Package Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the last sentence thereof and inserting the following at the end thereof: 
       
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the level of medical, dental and vision coverage provided under this Section 1.1(a) shall in no event be less than the greater of (i) the level of such coverage provided to the Company s Chief Executive Officer during the then current year and (ii) the level of such coverage provided to Ferber and his spouse on June 1, 2012 (as listed in Exhibit A attached hereto and described in the Aetna Schedule of Benefits and the Aetna Benefit Plan Booklet for the PPO Medical Plan (GR-9N, Certificate GP-724710), both effective January 1, 2011; the Ross Stores, Inc. Dental Plan Schedule of Benefits (Metropolitan Group Policy 105624-1-G), effective January 1, 2013; and the VSP Vision Care for Life Summary, effective January 1, 2013) (the greater of the coverage referred to in clauses (i) or (ii) shall be referred to as the  Minimum Coverage ). Notwithstanding Section 1.1(d) to the contrary, in the event that, after Ferber has ceased providing services to the Company, such coverage may no longer be extended to Ferber (a) due to the terms of the Company s health care plans, (b) under applicable law or (c) because such coverage is no longer available, the Company shall purchase and maintain a health insurance policy or policies, or otherwise provide coverage, for Ferber, Ferber s spouse, and Ferber s children under the age of 21 (or older if living at home or at college) at the level of coverage equal to the Minimum Coverage at no cost on an after-tax basis to Ferber, his spouse and his children.  Ferber may retain a third party consultant (at the sole expense of the Company) to verify that the level of coverage provided under such policy, policies or otherwise is equal to or greater than the Minimum Coverage.  
    
  Except for the amendment as set forth above, the Retirement Benefit Package Agreement and all of its terms remain in force and in effect. 
    
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment as of the date and year first written above. 
                   ROSS STORES, INC. 
      
    NORMAN FERBER 

/s/G. Orban 
      
    /s/Norman A. Ferber 
      By:  George P. Orban 
      
    Norman Ferber 
      Chairman of the Compensation Committee 

Date 
      
    Date 

</EX-10.39>

<EX-10.49>
 4
 exhibit1049balmuth-seconda.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.49

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.49 

SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 

THE SECOND AMENDMENT TO THE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT (the  Amendment ) is made, effective as of January 1, 2016, by Ross Stores, Inc. (the  Company ) and Michael Balmuth (the  Executive ).  The Executive and the Company previously entered into an Employment Agreement, effective June 1, 2012 (attached hereto) and amended effective March 15, 2015, and it is now the intention of the Executive and the Company to amend the Employment Agreement as set forth below.  Accordingly, the Company and the Executive hereby agree as follows: 
    
           1. 
    Paragraph 3 of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the phrase  at the Company s New York buying office  and inserting the phrase  primarily at the Company s corporate headquarters in Dublin, California  in place thereof. 
              2. 
    Paragraph 4(i) of the Employment Agreement is hereby amended by deleting the last sentence thereof and inserting the following at the end thereof: 
       
   Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Executive and his spouse will be entitled to continue to receive until their respective deaths, at no cost on an after-tax basis to the Executive and his spouse, all benefits available to the Executive as of June 1, 2012 (or, except in the case of medical, dental and vision benefits, their cash equivalent, which together with any applicable tax gross-up shall be paid to the Executive (or his spouse, if she survives the Executive) during the 60-day period immediately following the applicable year), including those benefits enumerated in paragraphs 4(i) and 4(j) herein, provided that the level of medical, dental and vision coverage shall in no event be less than the greater of (i) the level of such coverage provided to the Company s Chief Executive Officer during the then current year and (ii) the level of such coverage provided to the Executive and his spouse on June 1, 2012 (as described in the Aetna Schedule of Benefits and the Aetna Benefit Plan Booklet for the PPO Medical Plan (GR-9N, Certificate GP-724710), both effective January 1, 2011; the Ross Stores, Inc. Dental Plan Schedule of Benefits (Metropolitan Group Policy 105624-1-G), effective January 1, 2013; and the VSP Vision Care for Life Summary, effective January 1, 2013) (the greater of the coverage referred to in clauses (i) and (ii) shall be referred to as the  Minimum Coverage ). In the event that, following termination of the Executive s employment, such coverage may no longer be extended to the Executive (a) due to the terms of the Company s health care plans, (b) under applicable law, or (c) because such coverage is no longer available, the Company shall purchase and maintain a health insurance policy or policies, or otherwise provide coverage, for the Executive and his spouse at the level of coverage equal to the Minimum Coverage.  The Executive may retain an appropriate third party consultant (at the sole expense of the Company) to verify that the level of coverage provided under such policy, policies or otherwise is equal to or greater than the Minimum Coverage.  
    
  Except for the amendment as set forth above, the Employment Agreement and all of its terms remain in force and in effect. 

Exhibit 10.49 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Amendment as of the date and year first written above. 

ROSS STORES, INC. 
      
    EXECUTIVE 

/s/G. Orban 
      
    /s/Michael Balmuth 
      By:  George P. Orban 
      
    Michael Balmuth 
      Chairman of the Compensation Committee 

Date 
      
    Date 

2 

</EX-10.49>

<EX-10.56>
 5
 exhibit1056fassioexecutive.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.56

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.56 

    EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT 
    
  THIS EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT   (this    Agreement   ) is made effective November 19, 2015 (the    Effective Date   ) by and between Ross Stores, Inc., a Delaware corporation, and James S. Fassio (the    Executive   ).  References herein to the    Company    shall mean Ross Stores, Inc. and, where appropriate, Ross Stores, Inc. and each and any of its divisions, affiliates or subsidiaries.   
  RECITALS 
  The Company wishes to employ the Executive, and the Executive is willing to accept such employment for a five year term ending March 31, 2020, during which  he will serve three years as President and Chief Development Officer (   CDO   ) and two years as a Senior Advisor (   SA   ) to the Company unless the Executive requests otherwise and the Company approves such request in accordance with Section 1(b). 
  It is now the mutual desire of the Company and the Executive to enter into a written employment agreement to govern the terms of the Executive s employment  by the Company as of and following the Effective Date on the terms and conditions set forth below. 
  TERMS AND CONDITIONS 
  In consideration for the promises of the parties set forth below, the Company and the     Executive hereby agree as follows: 
  1.  Term.    Subject to the provisions of Section 6 of this Agreement, the term of employment of the Executive by the Company under this Agreement (the    Term of Employment   ) shall be as follows:  
  (a)        Initial Term.    The initial Term of Employment of the Executive by the Company under this Agreement shall begin on the Effective Date and end on March 31, 2020 (the    Initial Term   ), unless extended or terminated earlier in accordance with this Agreement.   
  (b)        Renewal Option.     
  (i)        By February 1, 2016, the Executive may request the Company to renew his term of service as CDO through March 31, 2019.  If the Company approves such request, the Executive shall serve as CDO through March 31, 2019.  If the Executive does not make such request or such request is not approved by the Company, the Executive shall transition to SA on April 1, 2018.      
  (ii)        If the Executive s renewal request is approved under Section 1(b)(i), by February 1, 2017, the Executive may request the Company to renew his term of service as CDO through March 31, 2020.  If the Company approves such request, the Executive shall serve as CDO through March 31, 2020.  If the Executive does not make such request or such request is not approved by the Company, the Executive shall transition to SA on April 1, 2019. 

1 

Exhibit 10.56 

   (iii)        By February 1, 2018, the Executive may request the Company to extend his term of service as CDO or SA, as applicable, beyond March 31, 2020 under such terms and conditions as the Executive and the Company shall mutually agree. 
  2.        Position and Duties.     During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall serve  three years as CDO and two years as a SA to the Company unless the Executive and the Company agree otherwise in accordance with Section 1(b).  The Executive will take direction from the Chief Executive Officer ( CEO ) and Executive Chairman of the Board of Directors while serving as CDO and from the CEO and his replacement as CDO (or the most senior executive in the real estate function) for the period that he serves as SA.  During the Term of Employment, the Executive may engage in outside activities provided (i) such activities (including but not limited to membership on boards of directors of not-for-profit and for-profit organizations) do not conflict with the Executive s duties and responsibilities hereunder and (ii) the Executive obtains written approval from the Company s Chief Executive Officer of any significant outside business activity in which the Executive plans to become involved, whether or not such activity is pursued for profit. 
  3.        Principal Place of Employment.    The Executive shall be employed at the Company s offices in Dublin, CA, except for required travel on the Company s business to an extent substantially consistent with present business travel obligations of the Executive s position.   
  4.        Compensation and Related Matters. 
  (a)        Salary.    During the Term of Employment, the Company shall pay to the Executive a salary at a rate of not less than (i) Nine Hundred Seventy Five Thousand Dollars ($975,000) per annum during the period from the Effective Date until the date Executive transitions to SA and (ii) seventy-five percent of Executive s final salary per annum as CDO for the period Executive serves as SA.  The Executive s salary shall be payable in substantially equal installments in accordance with the Company s normal payroll practices applicable to senior executives.  Subject to the first sentence of this Section 4(a), the Executive s salary may be adjusted from time to time in accordance with normal business practices of the Company for any period Executive serves as CDO.  The Executive will not be eligible for salary adjustments after transitioning to SA. 
  (b)        Bonus.    During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be eligible to receive an annual bonus paid under the Company s existing incentive bonus plan under which the Executive is eligible (which is currently the Incentive Compensation Plan) or any replacement plan that may subsequently be established and in effect during the Term of Employment.  The current target annual bonus the Executive is eligible to earn upon achievement of 100% of all applicable performance targets under such incentive bonus plan is 90% of the Executive s then effective annual salary rate.  At the time the Executive transitions to SA, his target annual bonus will be fifteen (15) percentage points below his final target bonus percentage as CDO.  Annual bonuses are not earned until the date any such bonus is paid in accordance with the terms of the applicable bonus plan.  As such, the Executive s termination for Cause or Voluntary Termination (as described in Sections 6(c) and 6(f), respectively) prior to the Company s payment of the bonus for a fiscal year of the Company will cause the Executive to be ineligible for any annual bonus for that fiscal year or any pro-rata portion of such bonus.   

2 

Exhibit 10.56 

   (c)        Retention Bonus  .  The Executive will be eligible to receive a one-time bonus in the amount of $775,000 provided he remains employed with the Company continuously through March 31, 2020, which shall be payable in a lump sum on or before April 30, 2020. 
  (d)        Expenses.    During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be entitled to receive prompt reimbursement for all other reasonable expenses incurred by the Executive in performing services hereunder, including all reasonable expenses of travel and living while away from home, provided that such expenses are incurred and accounted for in accordance with the policies and procedures established by the Company. 
  (e)        Benefits.    During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be entitled to participate in all of the Company s employee benefit plans and arrangements in which senior executives of the Company are eligible to participate.  The Company shall not make any changes in such plans or arrangements which would adversely affect the Executive s rights or benefits thereunder, unless such change occurs pursuant to a program applicable to all senior executives of the Company and does not result in a proportionately greater reduction in the rights or benefits of the Executive as compared with any other similarly situated senior executive of the Company.  The Executive shall be entitled to participate in, or receive benefits under, any employee benefit plan or arrangement made available by the Company in the future to its senior executives, subject to, and on a basis consistent with, the terms, conditions and overall administration of such plans and arrangements.  Except as otherwise specifically provided herein, nothing paid to the Executive under any plan or arrangement presently in effect or made available in the future shall be in lieu of the salary or bonus otherwise payable under this Agreement. 
  (f)        Estate and Financial Planning.    During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be reimbursed by the Company for any estate and financial planning fees or expenses actually incurred by the Executive up to a maximum annual reimbursement of $18,000.  Such fees and expenses shall be reimbursed to the Executive on or before the last day of the fiscal year of the Company in which such fees and expenses are incurred, provided that the Executive has timely submitted expense documentation in support of such reimbursement. 
  (g)        Vacations.    During the Term of Employment, the Executive shall be entitled to twenty-five vacation days in each calendar year, subject to a maximum total accrual of 820.035 hours of vacation.  The Executive shall also be entitled to all paid holidays given by the Company to its senior executives.  An amount equal to the value of the Executive s accrued vacation not in excess of 820.035 hours shall be paid to the Executive within 30 days after his termination of employment with the Company (as CDO and SA), determined using his final hourly rate of base salary as CDO.       
  (h)        Services Furnished.    The Company shall furnish the Executive with office space and such services as are suitable to the Executive s position and adequate for the performance of the Executive s duties during the Term of Employment.  For the period that Executive serves as SA, he shall be entitled to an executive administrative assistant.  

3 

Exhibit 10.56 

   (i)        Lifetime Benefits.    If the Executive remains employed with the Company through the end of the Initial Term, he and his spouse until their respective deaths, and his dependent child until age 26, shall be entitled to continue to participate in the Company s medical, dental and vision plans at a level equivalent to the level of such coverage provided to the Executive, his spouse and his dependent child (until age 26) as of August 1, 2015 (such level of coverage is referred to herein as the  2015 Coverage  and is described in the Aetna Schedule of Benefits for Vice Presidents and above (Group Policy GP-724710) and the Aetna Benefit Plan Booklet for the PPO Medical Plan (Certificate Number 2; Group Policy GP-724710), both effective January 1, 2011; the Ross Stores, Inc. Dental Plan Schedule of Benefits (Metropolitan Group Policy 105624-1-G), effective January 1, 2013; and the VSP Vision Care for Life Summary, effective January 1, 2013),   provided, however  , that any such health care coverage shall cease at such time that Executive becomes eligible for health care coverage through another employer; and   provided, further  , that the Executive and his spouse will each enroll in Medicare Parts A and B as soon as the Executive and/or his spouse is eligible for Medicare coverage and remain enrolled in Medicare Parts A and B, and to the extent permitted by law any coverage provided under this Section 4(i) will be coordinated with Medicare, so that the Company provided coverage is secondary.  The Company shall not make any changes in such plans or arrangements that would adversely affect the Executive s rights or benefits thereunder, unless such change occurs pursuant to a program applicable to all senior executives of the Company and does not result in a proportionately greater reduction in the rights of, or benefits to, the Executive as compared generally with the other senior executives of the Company.  In the event that, following termination of the Executive s employment, such coverage may no longer be extended to the Executive (a) due to the terms of the Company s health care plans (including changes to the terms of the Company s healthcare plans applicable to all senior executives of the Company), (b) under applicable law, or (c) because such coverage is no longer available, the Company shall purchase and maintain a health insurance policy or policies, or otherwise provide coverage, for the Executive, his spouse and dependent child (until age 26) at the level of coverage equal to the 2015 Coverage.  The Executive may retain an appropriate third party consultant (at the sole expense of the Company) to verify that the level of coverage provided under such policy, policies or otherwise is equal to or greater than the 2015 Coverage.    
  5.        Confidential Information and Intellectual Property. 
  (a)        Other than in the performance of the Executive s duties hereunder, the Executive agrees not to use in any manner or disclose, distribute, publish, communicate or in any way cause to be used, disclosed, distributed, published, or communicated in any way or at any time, either while in the Company's employ or at any time thereafter, to any person not employed by the Company, or not engaged to render services to the Company, any Confidential Information (as defined below) obtained while in the employ of the Company. 
  (b)        Confidential Information includes any written or unwritten information which relates to and/or is used by the Company or its subsidiaries, affiliates or divisions, including, without limitation: (i) the names, addresses, buying habits and other special information regarding past, present and potential customers, employees and suppliers of the Company; (ii) customer and supplier contracts and transactions or price lists of the Company and suppliers;  (iii) methods of distribution; (iv) all agreements, files, books, logs, charts, records, studies, reports, processes, schedules and  

4 

Exhibit 10.56 

   statistical information; (v) data, figures, projections, estimates, pricing data, customer lists, buying manuals or procedures, distribution manuals or procedures, and other policy and procedure manuals or handbooks; (vi) supplier information, tax records, personnel histories and records, sales information and property information; (vii) information regarding the present or future phases of business; (viii) ideas, inventions, trademarks, business information, know-how, processes, techniques, improvements, designs, redesigns, creations, discoveries, trade secrets, and developments; (ix) all computer software licensed or developed by the Company or its subsidiaries, affiliates or divisions, computer programs, computer-based and web-based training programs, and systems; and (x) finances and financial information.  However, Confidential Information will not include information of the Company or its subsidiaries, affiliates or divisions that (1) became or becomes a matter of public knowledge through sources independent of the Executive, (2) has been or is disclosed by the Company or its subsidiaries, affiliates or divisions without restriction on its use, or (3) has been or is required or specifically permitted to be disclosed by law or governmental order or regulation. The Executive agrees that, if there is any reasonable doubt whether an item is public knowledge, the Executive will not regard the item as public knowledge until and unless the Company s CEO confirms to the Executive that the information is public knowledge. 
  (c)        The provisions of this Section 5 shall not preclude the Executive from disclosing such information to the Executive's professional tax advisor or legal counsel solely to the extent necessary to the rendering of their professional services to the Executive if such individuals agree to keep such information confidential.    
  (d)        The Executive agrees that upon leaving the Company s employ the Executive will remain reasonably available to answer questions from Company officers regarding the Executive s former duties and responsibilities and the knowledge the Executive obtained in connection therewith. 
  (e)        The Executive agrees that upon leaving the Company's employ the Executive will not communicate with, or give statements to, any member of the media (including print, television, radio or social media) relating to any matter (including pending or threatened lawsuits or administrative investigations) about which the Executive has knowledge or information (other than knowledge or information that is not Confidential Information) as a result of employment with the Company.  The Executive further agrees to notify the CEO or his or her designee immediately after being contacted by any member of the media with respect to any matter affected by this section. 
  (f)        The Executive agrees that all information, inventions and discoveries, whether or not patented or patentable, made or conceived by the Executive, either alone or with others, at any time while employed by the Company, which arise out of such employment or is pertinent to any field of business or research in which, during such employment, the Company, its subsidiaries, affiliates or divisions is engaged or (if such is known to or ascertainable by the Executive) is considering engaging (   Intellectual Property   ) shall (i) be and remain the sole property of the Company and the Executive shall not seek a patent with respect to such Intellectual Property without the prior consent of an authorized representative of the Company and (ii) be disclosed promptly to an authorized representative of the Company along with all information the Executive possesses with regard to possible applications and uses.  Further, at the request of the Company, and without  

5 

Exhibit 10.56 

   expense or additional compensation to the Executive, the Executive agrees to execute such documents and perform such other acts as the Company deems necessary to obtain patents on such Intellectual Property in a jurisdiction or jurisdictions designated by the Company, and to assign to the Company or its designee such Intellectual Property and all patent applications and patents relating thereto. 
  (g)        The Executive and the Company agree that the Executive intends all original works of authorship within the purview of the copyright laws of the United States authored or created by the Executive in the course of the Executive s employment with the Company will be works for hire within the meaning of such copyright law. 
  (h)        Upon termination of the Executive s employment, or at any time upon request of the Company, the Executive will return to the Company all Confidential Information and Intellectual Property, in any form, including but not limited to letters, memoranda, reports, notes, notebooks, books of account, drawings, prints, specifications, formulae, data printouts, microfilms, magnetic tapes, disks, recordings, documents, and all copies thereof.  
  6.        Termination.    The Executive s employment may be terminated during the Term of Employment only as follows: 
  (a)        Death.    The Executive s employment shall terminate upon the Executive s death. 
  (b)        Disability.    If, as a result of the Executive s Disability (as defined below), the Executive shall have been absent from the Executive s duties hereunder on a full-time basis for the entire period of six consecutive months, and, within thirty days after written notice of termination is given by the Company (which may occur before or after the end of such six-month period), the Executive shall not have returned to the performance of the Executive s duties hereunder on a full-time basis, the Executive s employment shall terminate.  For purposes of this Agreement, the term    Disability    shall have the same meaning as ascribed to such term under the Company's long-term disability plan in which Executive is participating; provided that in the absence of such plan (or the absence of Executive's participation in such plan), Disability shall mean Executive s inability to substantially perform his or her duties hereunder due to a medically determinable physical or mental impairment which has lasted for a period of not less than one hundred twenty (120) consecutive days.  
  (c)        For Cause.    The Company may terminate the Executive s employment for Cause.  For this purpose,    Cause    means the occurrence of any of the following (i) the Executive s continuous failure to substantially perform the Executive s duties hereunder (unless such failure is a result of a Disability as defined in Section 6(b)); (ii) the Executive s theft, dishonesty, breach of fiduciary duty for personal profit or falsification of any documents of the Company; (iii) the Executive s material failure to abide by the applicable code(s) of conduct or other policies (including, without limitation, policies relating to confidentiality and reasonable workplace conduct) of the Company; (iv) knowing or intentional misconduct by the Executive as a result of which the Company is required to prepare an accounting restatement; (v) the Executive s unauthorized use, misappropriation, destruction or diversion of any tangible or intangible asset or corporate  

6 

Exhibit 10.56 

   opportunity of the Company (including, without limitation, the Executive s improper use or disclosure of confidential or proprietary information of the Company); (vi) any intentional misconduct or illegal or grossly negligent conduct by the Executive which is materially injurious to the Company monetarily or otherwise; (vii) any material breach by the Executive of the provisions of Section 9 [Certain Employment Obligations] of this Agreement; or (viii) the Executive s conviction (including any plea of guilty or nolo contendere) of any criminal act involving fraud, dishonesty, misappropriation or moral turpitude, or which materially impairs the Executive s ability to perform his or her duties with the Company.  A termination for Cause shall not take effect unless: (1) the Executive is given written notice by the Company of its intention to terminate the Executive for Cause; (2) the notice specifically identifies the particular act or acts or failure or failures to act which are the basis for such termination; and (3) where practicable, the notice is given within sixty days of the Company s learning of such act or acts or failure or failures to act.   
  (d)        Without Cause.    The Company may terminate the Executive s employment at any time Without Cause.  A termination    Without Cause    is a termination by the Company of the Executive s employment with the Company for any reasons other than the death or Disability of the Executive or the termination by the Company of the Executive for Cause as described in Section 6(c).  
  (e)        Termination by the Executive for Good Reason.     
  (i)        Termination Not in Connection with a Change in Control.    At any time during the Term of Employment, other than within the period commencing one month prior to and ending twelve months following a Change in Control (as defined below in Section 8(e)(ii)), the Executive may terminate the Executive s employment with the Company for    Good Reason  ,  which shall be deemed to occur if, within sixty days after receipt of written notice to the Company by the Executive of the occurrence of one or more of the following conditions, any of the following conditions have not been cured: (i) a failure by the Company to comply with any material provision of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, the reduction of the Executive s salary or the target annual bonus opportunity set forth in Section 4(b)); (ii) a significant diminishment in the nature or scope of the authority, power, function or duty attached to the position which the Executive currently maintains without the express written consent of the Executive;   provided  , that the Executive s employment may be transferred, assigned, or re-assigned to Ross Stores, Inc. or a division, affiliate or subsidiary of Ross Stores, Inc.; the division, affiliate or subsidiary with respect to which the Executive is performing services may be reorganized; and the Executive s direct reports or the person or title of the person to whom the Executive reports may be changed; and no such transfer, assignment, re-assignment, reorganization or change shall constitute  Good Reason  for the Executive s termination of employment under this Section 6(e)(i); or (iii) the relocation of the Executive s Principal Place of Employment as described in Section 3 to a location that increases the regular one-way commute distance between the Executive s residence and Principal Place of Employment by more than 25 miles without the Executive s prior written consent.  In order to constitute a termination of     employment for Good Reason, the Executive must provide written notice to the Company of the existence of the condition giving rise to the Good Reason termination within sixty days of the initial existence of the condition, and in the event such condition is cured by the  

7 

Exhibit 10.56 

   Company within sixty days from its receipt of such written notice, the termination shall not constitute a termination for Good Reason.   
  (ii)        Termination in Connection with a Change in Control.    Within the period commencing a month prior to and ending twelve months following a Change in Control, the Executive may terminate the Executive s employment with the Company for  Good Reason,  which shall be deemed to occur if, within sixty days after receipt of written notice to the Company by the Executive of the occurrence of one or more of the following conditions, any of the following conditions have not been cured: (i) a failure by the Company to comply with any provision of this Agreement (including, but not limited to, the reduction of the Executive s salary, the target annual bonus opportunity or any other incentive opportunity, in each case, as of immediately prior to the Change in Control); (ii) a change in title, the nature or scope of the authority, power, function, responsibilities, reporting relationships or duty attached to the position which the Executive currently maintains without the express written consent of the Executive; (iii) the relocation of the Executive s Principal Place of Employment as described in Section 3 to a location that increases the regular one-way commute distance between the Executive s residence and Principal Place of Employment by more than 25 miles without the Executive s prior written consent; (iv) a change in the benefits to which the Executive is entitled to immediately prior to the Change in Control; or (v) the failure of the Company to assign this Agreement to any successor to the Company.  In order to constitute a termination of     employment for Good Reason, the Executive must provide written notice to the Company of the existence of the condition giving rise to the Good Reason termination within sixty days of the initial existence of the condition, and in the event such condition is cured by the Company within sixty days from its receipt of such written notice, the termination shall not constitute a termination for Good Reason. 
  (f)        Voluntary Termination.    The Executive may voluntarily resign from the Executive s employment with the Company at any time (a    Voluntary Termination   ).  A voluntary resignation from employment by the Executive for Good Reason pursuant to Section 6(e) shall not be deemed a Voluntary Termination.  
  (g)        Non-Renewal Termination.    If the Company does not request that the Executive renew or the Executive elects not to renew beyond March 31, 2020, this Agreement shall automatically expire at the end of the Initial Term (a    Non-Renewal Termination   ), and the Executive shall be entitled to the benefits specified in Section 8(d), including lifetime benefits under Section 4(i). 
  7.        Notice and Effective Date of Termination. 
  (a)        Notice.    Any termination of the Executive s employment by the Company or by the Executive during the Term of Employment (other than as a result of the death of the Executive or a Non-Renewal Termination described in Section 6(g)) shall be communicated by written notice of termination to the other party hereto.  Such notice shall indicate the specific termination provision in this Agreement relied upon and, except in the case of termination Without Cause and Voluntary Termination as described in Sections 6(d) and 6(f), respectively, shall set forth in reasonable detail  

8 

Exhibit 10.56 

   the facts and circumstances claimed to provide a basis for termination of the Executive s employment under that provision. 
  (b)        Date of Termination.    The date of termination of the Executive s employment shall be: 
  (i)        if the Executive s employment is terminated due to the Executive s death, the date of the Executive s death; 
  (ii)        if the Executive s employment is terminated due to Disability pursuant to Section 6(b), the date of termination shall be the last to occur of the 31st day following delivery of the notice of termination to the Executive by the Company or the end of the consecutive six-month period referred to in Section 6(b); 
  (iii)        if the Executive s employment is terminated for any other reason by either party, the date on which a notice of termination is delivered to the other party or, in the event of the Company s termination of the Executive, such date as the Company may specify in such notice; and 
  (iv)        if the Agreement expires pursuant to a Non-Renewal Termination described in Section 6(g), the parties  employment relationship shall terminate on the last day of the then current Term of Employment without any notice. 
  8.        Compensation and Benefits Upon Termination. 
  (a)        Termination Due To Disability, Without Cause or For Good Reason.    If the Executive s employment terminates pursuant to Section 6(b) [Disability], Section 6(d) [Without Cause], or Section 6(e)(i) [Termination by Executive for Good Reason Not in Connection with a Change in Control], then, subject to Section 22 [Compliance with Section 409A], in addition to all salary, annual bonuses, expense reimbursements, benefits and accrued vacation days earned by the Executive pursuant to Section 4 through the date of the Executive s termination of employment, the Executive shall be entitled to the compensation and benefits set forth in Sections 8(a)(i) through (viii), provided that within sixty days following the Executive s termination of employment (i) the Executive has executed and delivered to the Company a general release of claims against the Company and its subsidiaries, affiliates, stockholders, directors, officers, employees, agents, successors and assigns in the current form approved by the Company and attached as Exhibit A (subject to any amendments required by law or regulation) (the    Release   ), and (ii) the Release has become irrevocable: 
  (v)        Salary.    Commencing on the sixtieth day after the date of the Executive's termination of employment, the Company shall continue to pay to the Executive the Executive s salary, at the rate in effect immediately prior to such termination of employment, through the remainder of the Term of Employment then in effect; provided, however, that any such salary otherwise payable during the 60-day period immediately following the date of such termination of employment shall be paid to the Executive sixty days following such termination of employment.  

9 

Exhibit 10.56 

   (vi)        Bonus.    The Company shall continue to pay to the Executive an annual bonus through the remainder of the Term of Employment then in effect; provided, however, that the amount of the annual bonus determined in accordance with this Section 8(a) (ii) for the fiscal year of the Company in which such Term of Employment ends shall be prorated on the basis of the number of days of such Term of Employment occurring within such fiscal year.  The amount of each annual bonus payable pursuant to this Section 8(a)(ii), prior to any proration, shall be equal to the annual bonus that the Executive would have earned had no such termination under Section 8(a) occurred, contingent on the relevant annual bonus plan performance goals for the respective year having been obtained.  However, in no case shall any such post-termination annual bonus exceed 100% of the Executive's target bonus for the fiscal year of the Company in which the Executive's termination of employment occurs.  Such bonuses shall be paid on the later of the date they would otherwise be paid in accordance with the applicable Company bonus plan or sixty days after the date of the Executive's termination of employment. 
  (vii)        Stock Options.    Stock options granted to the Executive by the Company and which remain outstanding immediately prior to the date of termination of the Executive s employment, as provided in Section 7(b), shall remain outstanding until and shall immediately become vested in full upon the Release becoming irrevocable. 
  (viii)        Restricted Stock.    Shares of restricted stock granted to the Executive by the Company, according to the terms of the Ross Stores, Inc. Restricted Stock Agreement, which have not become vested as of the date of termination of the Executive s employment, as provided in Section 7(b), shall immediately become vested on a pro rata basis upon the Release becoming irrevocable.  The number of such additional shares of restricted stock that shall become vested as of the date of the Executive s termination of employment shall be that number of additional shares that would have become vested through the date of such termination of employment at the rate(s) determined under the vesting schedule applicable to such shares had such vesting schedule provided for the accrual of vesting on a daily basis (based on a 365 day year).  The pro rata amount of shares vesting through the date of termination shall be calculated by multiplying the number of unvested shares scheduled to vest in each respective vesting year by the ratio of the number of days from the date of grant through the date of termination and the number of days from the date of grant through the original vesting date of the respective vesting tranche.  Any shares of restricted stock remaining unvested after such pro rata acceleration of vesting shall automatically be reacquired by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the applicable restricted stock agreement, and the Executive shall have no further rights in such unvested portion of the restricted stock.  In addition, the Company shall waive any reacquisition or repayment rights for dividends paid on restricted stock prior to Executive s termination of employment.  
  (ix)        Performance Share Awards.    On the Performance Share Vesting Date (as defined in the Executive's Notice of Grant of Performance Shares and Performance Share Agreement from the Company (collectively the "Performance Share Agreement")) next following the Executive's date of termination of employment, the number of Performance Shares that shall become Vested Performance Shares (as defined in the Performance Share Agreement) shall be determined by multiplying (a) that number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to the  

10 

Exhibit 10.56 

   Performance Share Agreement that would have become Vested Performance Shares had no such termination occurred; provided, however, in no case shall the number of Performance Shares that become Vested Performance Shares exceed 100% of the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in the Performance Share Agreement by (b) the ratio of the number of full months of the Executive's employment with the Company during the Performance Period (as defined in the Performance Share Agreement) to the number of full months contained in the Performance Period.  Vested Common Shares shall be issued in settlement of such Vested Performance Shares on the Settlement Date next following the date of the Executive s termination of employment.          
  (x)        Unvested Common Shares Issued in Settlement of Performance Share Awards.    If the Executive terminates employment pursuant to Sections 6(b), 6(d) or 6(e)(i) after the Performance Share Vesting Date, the vesting of all Unvested Common Shares (as defined in the Performance Share Agreement) issued in settlement of the Performance Share Award shall be accelerated in full effective as of the date of such termination. 
  (xi)        Retention Bonus.    The Retention Bonus provided under Section 4(c) shall become vested in full upon the date of the Executive s termination of employment under this Section 8(a) and shall be paid in a lump sum within 30 days following such date. 
  (xii)        Lifetime Benefits.    Lifetime Benefits under Section 4(i) shall become vested in full upon the Executive s termination of employment under this Section 8(a). 
  The Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive as a result of termination of employment described in this Section 8(a) except as set forth in Section 12. 
  (b)        Termination for Cause or Voluntary Termination.    If the Executive s employment terminates pursuant to Section 6(c) [For Cause] or Section 6(f) [Voluntary Termination], the Executive shall be entitled to receive only the salary, annual bonuses, expense reimbursements, benefits and accrued vacation days earned by the Executive pursuant to Section 4 through the date of the Executive s termination of employment.  Annual bonuses are not earned until the date any such bonus is paid in accordance with the terms of the applicable bonus plan.  As such, the Executive shall not be entitled to any bonus not paid prior to the date of the Executive s termination of employment, and the Executive shall not be entitled to any prorated bonus payment for the year in which the Executive s employment terminates.  The Retention Bonus and Lifetime Benefits are forfeited if the Executive s employment terminates pursuant to Section 6(c) or Section 6(f) on or before March 31, 2020.  Any stock options granted to the Executive by the Company shall continue to vest only through the date on which the Executive s employment terminates and, unless otherwise provided by their terms, any restricted stock, performance share awards or other equity awards that were granted to the Executive by the Company that remain unvested as of the date on which the Executive s employment terminates pursuant to Sections 6(c) or 6(f) shall automatically be forfeited and the Executive shall have no further rights with respect to such awards.  The Company shall have no further obligations to the Executive as a result of termination of employment described in this Section 8(b) except as set forth in Section 12.  

11 

Exhibit 10.56 

   (c)        Death.    If the Executive s employment terminates pursuant to Section 6(a) [Death], (i) the Executive s designated beneficiary or the Executive s estate shall be entitled to receive only the salary, expense reimbursements, benefits and accrued vacation earned by the Executive pursuant to Section 4 through the date of the Executive s death; (ii) at the time payable under the applicable Company bonus plan, an annual bonus shall be paid to the Executive s designated beneficiary or the Executive s estate for the fiscal year of the Executive s death based on the annual bonus that the Executive would have earned under the Company s bonus plan for such fiscal year had the Executive not died, contingent on the relevant annual bonus plan performance goals for said year having been obtained, capped at 100% of the Executive s target bonus for such fiscal year and pro-rated for the number of days the Executive is employed during such fiscal year until the Executive s death; (iii) the Retention Bonus provided under Section 4(c) shall become vested in full upon the Executive s death and shall be paid in a lump sum within 30 days following the Executive s date of death; (iv) the Lifetime Benefits under Section 4(i) shall become vested in full upon the Executive s death; (v) any restricted stock granted to the Executive by the Company on or after January 22, 2014 and at least 12 months or more before the date of Executive s death, and which remains unvested as of the date of the Executive s death, shall immediately become fully vested and nonforfeitable, and any restricted stock granted to the Executive by the Company prior to January 22, 2014 or within the 12 month period immediately prior to the Executive s death that remains unvested as of the date of the Executive s death shall automatically be forfeited and the Executive shall have no further rights with respect to such restricted stock; and (vi) the Company shall waive any reacquisition or repayment rights for dividends paid on restricted stock prior to the Executive s death.    
  (iii)        Performance Share Awards.    On the Performance Share Vesting Date next following the Executive's date of death, the number of Performance Shares that shall become Vested Performance Shares shall be determined by multiplying (a) that number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to the Performance Share Agreement that would have become Vested Performance Shares had no such  termination occurred; provided, however, in no case shall the number of Performance Shares that become Vested Performance Shares exceed 100% of the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in the Performance Share Agreement, by (b) the ratio of the number of full months of the Executive's employment with the Company during the Performance Period (as defined in the Performance Share Agreement) to the number of full months contained in the Performance Period.  Vested Common Shares shall be issued in settlement of such Vested Performance Shares on the Settlement Date next following the Executive s date of death. 
  (iv)        Unvested Common Shares Issued in Settlement of Performance Share Awards.    If the Executive dies after the Performance Share Vesting Date, the vesting of all Unvested Common Shares issued in settlement of the Performance Share Award shall be accelerated in full effective as of the Executive s date of death. 
  (d)        Non-Renewal Termination.    If the Agreement expires as set forth in Section 6(g) [Non-Renewal Termination], then, subject to Section 22 [Compliance with Section 409A], in addition to all salary, annual bonuses, retention bonus, expense reimbursements, benefits, lifetime benefits and accrued vacation days earned by the Executive pursuant to Section 4 through the date  

12 

Exhibit 10.56 

   of the Executive s termination of employment, the Executive shall be entitled to the compensation set forth in Sections 8(d)(i) through (v), provided that within sixty days following the Executive s termination of employment (i) the Executive has executed and delivered the Release to the Company, and (ii) the Release has become irrevocable: 
  (i)        Bonus.    The Company shall pay the Executive an annual bonus for the fiscal year of the Company in which the date of the Executive s termination of employment occurs, which shall be prorated for the number of days of such fiscal year that the Executive is employed by the Company.  The amount of such annual bonus, prior to proration, shall be equal to the annual bonus that the Executive would have earned under the Company s bonus plan for the fiscal year of the Company in which the Executive s termination of employment occurs had the Executive remained in its employment, contingent on the relevant annual bonus plan performance goals for the year in which Executive terminates having been obtained.  However, in no case shall any such post-termination annual bonus exceed 100% of the Executive's target bonus for the fiscal year of the Company in which the Executive's termination of employment occurs.  Such bonus shall be paid on the later of the date they would otherwise be paid in accordance with the applicable Company bonus plan or sixty days after the date of the Executive's termination of employment.   
  (ii)        Stock Options.    Stock options granted to the Executive by the Company and which remain outstanding immediately prior to the date of termination of the Executive s employment, as provided in Section 7(b), shall remain outstanding until and shall immediately become vested in full upon the Release becoming irrevocable. 
  (iii)        Restricted Stock.    Shares of restricted stock granted to the Executive by the Company which have not become vested as of the date of termination of the Executive s employment, as provided in Section 7(b), shall immediately become vested on a pro rata basis upon the Release becoming irrevocable.  The number of such additional shares of restricted stock that shall become vested as of the date of the Executive s termination of employment shall be that number of additional shares that would have become vested through the date of such termination of employment at the rate(s) determined under the vesting schedule applicable to such shares had such vesting schedule provided for the accrual of vesting on a daily basis (based on a 365-day year).  The pro rata amount of shares vesting through the date of non-renewal shall be calculated by multiplying the number of unvested shares scheduled to vest in each respective vesting year by the ratio of the number of days from the date of grant through the date of non-renewal, and the number of days from the date of grant through the original vesting date of the respective vesting tranche.  Any shares of restricted stock remaining unvested after such pro rata acceleration of vesting shall automatically be reacquired by the Company in accordance with the provisions of the applicable restricted stock agreement, and the Executive shall have no further rights in such unvested portion of the restricted stock.  In addition, the Company shall waive any reacquisition or repayment rights for dividends paid on restricted stock prior to Executive s termination of employment.   
  (iv)        Performance Share Awards.    On the Performance Share Vesting Date on or next following the Executive's date of termination of employment, the number of Performance Shares that shall become Vested Performance Shares shall be determined by multiplying (a) that number of shares of Company Common Stock subject to the Performance Share  

13 

Exhibit 10.56 

   Agreement that would have become Vested Performance Shares had no such termination occurred; provided, however, in no case shall the number of Performance Shares that become Vested Performance Shares exceed 100% of the Target Number of Performance Shares set forth in the Performance Share Agreement, by (b) the ratio of the number of full months of the Executive's employment with the Company during the Performance Period (as defined in the Performance Share Agreement) to the number of full months contained in the Performance Period.  Vested Common Shares shall be issued in settlement of such Vested Performance Shares on the Settlement Date next following the Executive s termination of employment.  
  (v)        Unvested Common Shares Issued in Settlement of Performance Share Awards.    If the Executive terminates employment pursuant to Section 6(g) after the Performance Share Vesting Date, the vesting of all Unvested Common Shares issued in settlement of the Performance Share Award shall be accelerated in full effective as of the date of such termination.  
    
  (e)        Special Change in Control Provisions.   
  (i)        Termination of Employment in Connection with a Change in Control.    If the Executive s employment is terminated either by the Company Without Cause (as defined in Section 6(d)) or by the Executive for Good Reason (as defined in Section 6(e)(ii)), in either case within the period commencing one month prior to and ending twelve months following a Change in Control, then, subject to Section 22 [Compliance with Section 409A], the Executive shall be entitled to the compensation and benefits set forth in Sections 8(e)(i)(a) through (e) (in addition to any other payments or benefits provided under this Agreement), provided that within sixty days following the Executive s termination of employment (i) the Executive has executed and delivered the Release to the Company, and (ii) the Release has become irrevocable:  
  a.        Salary.     The Executive shall be entitled to a cash payment equal to 2.99 times the Executive s then-current annual base salary, which shall be paid to the Executive sixty days following such termination of employment.  The payment under this Section 8(e)(i)(a) shall take the place of any payment under Section 8(a)(i) and the Executive shall not be entitled to receive a payment under Section 8(a)(i) if the Executive is entitled to a payment under this Section 8(e)(i)(a). 
  b.        Bonus.    The Executive shall be entitled to a cash payment equal to 2.99 times the Executive s target annual bonus for the Company s fiscal year then in effect on the date termination of employment occurs, which shall be paid to the Executive sixty days following such termination of employment.  The payment under this Section 8(e)(i)(b) shall take the place of any payment under Section 8(a)(ii) and the Executive shall not be entitled to receive a payment under Section 8(a)(ii) if the Executive is entitled to a payment under this Section 8(e)(i)(b).        
  c.        Equity.    All shares of restricted stock granted to the Executive by the Company shall become vested in full upon the termination.  Additionally, if the termination occurs prior to the Performance Share Vesting Date, the vesting of 100% of the Target  

14 

Exhibit 10.56 

   Number of Performance Shares shall be accelerated and such Performance Shares shall be deemed Vested Performance Shares effective as of the date of the termination.  The vesting of all Unvested Common Shares issued in settlement of the Performance Share Award shall be accelerated in full effective as of the date of such termination.  Except as set forth in this Section 8(e)(i)(c), the treatment of stock options, performance share awards and all other equity awards granted to the Executive by the Company that remain outstanding immediately prior to the date of such Change in Control shall be determined in accordance with their terms. 
  d.        Estate Planning.    The Executive shall be entitled to reimbursement of the Executive s estate planning expenses (including attorneys  fees) on the same basis, if any, as to which the Executive was entitled to such reimbursements immediately prior to such termination of employment for the remainder of the Term of Employment then in effect. 
  e.        Retention Bonus.    The Retention Bonus provided under Section 4(c) shall become vested in full upon the date of the Executive s termination of employment under this Section 8(e)(i) and shall be paid in a lump sum within 30 days following such date. 
    
  f.        Lifetime Benefits.    Lifetime Benefits offered under Section 4(i) shall become vested in full upon the date of the Executive s termination of employment under this Section 8(e)(i). 
  (ii)        Change in Control Defined.    A    Change in Control    shall be deemed to have occurred if: (1) any person or group (within the meaning of Rule 13d-3 of the rules and regulations promulgated under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended) shall acquire during the twelve-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or group, in one or a series of transactions, whether through sale of stock or merger, ownership of stock of the Company that constitutes 35% or more of the total voting power of the stock of the Company or any successor to the Company; (2) a merger in which the Company is a party pursuant to which any person or such group acquires ownership of stock of the Company that, together with stock held by such person or group, constitutes more than 50% of the total fair market value or total voting power of the stock of the Company (provided such person or group held not more than 50% of the total fair market value and total voting power of the stock of the Company prior to such merger); or (3) the sale, exchange, or transfer of all or substantially all of the Company s assets (other than a sale, exchange, or transfer to one or more corporations where the stockholders of the Company before and after such sale, exchange, or transfer, directly or indirectly, are the beneficial owners of at least a majority of the voting stock of the corporation(s) to which the assets were transferred). 
  (iii)        Excise Tax - Best After-Tax Result.     In the event that any payment or benefit received or to be received by Executive pursuant to this Agreement or otherwise ( Payments ) would (a) constitute a  parachute payment  within the meaning of Section 280G of the Code and (b) but for this section, be subject to the excise tax imposed by Section 4999 of the Code, any successor provisions, or any comparable federal, state, local or foreign excise tax ( Excise Tax ), then, subject to the provisions of Section 8(e)(iv), such Payments shall be either (1) provided  

15 

Exhibit 10.56 

   in full pursuant to the terms of this Agreement or any other applicable agreement, or (2) provided as to such lesser extent which would result in no portion of such Payments being subject to the Excise Tax ( Reduced Amount ), whichever of the foregoing amounts, taking into account the applicable federal, state, local and foreign income, employment and other taxes and the Excise Tax (including, without limitation, any interest or penalties on such taxes), results in the receipt by Executive, on an after-tax basis, of the greatest amount of payments and benefits provided for hereunder or otherwise, notwithstanding that all or some portion of such Payments may be subject to the Excise Tax.       If Executive s payments or benefits are delivered to a lesser extent in accordance with this clause (2) above, then Executive s aggregate benefits shall be reduced in the following order: (i) cash severance pay that is exempt from Section 409A; (ii) any other cash severance pay; (iii) reimbursement payments under Section 4(d), above; (iv) any restricted stock; (v) any equity awards other than restricted stock and stock options; and (vi) stock options.      Unless the Company and Executive otherwise agree in writing, any determination required under this Section shall be made by an independent advisor designated by the Company and reasonably acceptable to Executive ( Independent Advisor ), whose determination shall be conclusive and binding upon Executive and the Company for all purposes. For purposes of making the calculations required under this Section, Independent Advisor may make reasonable assumptions and approximations concerning applicable taxes and may rely on reasonable, good faith interpretations concerning the application of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code; provided that Independent Advisor shall assume that Executive pays all taxes at the highest marginal rate. The Company and Executive shall furnish to Independent Advisor such information and documents as Independent Advisor may reasonably request in order to make a determination under this Section. The Company shall bear all costs that Independent Advisor may incur in connection with any calculations contemplated by this Section. In the event that this Section 8(e)(iii) applies, then based on the information provided to Executive and the Company by Independent Advisor, Executive may, in Executive s sole discretion and within thirty days of the date on which Executive is provided with the information prepared by Independent Advisor, determine which and how much of the Payments (including the accelerated vesting of equity compensation awards) to be otherwise received by Executive shall be eliminated or reduced (as long as after such determination the value (as calculated by Independent Advisor in accordance with the provisions of Sections 280G and 4999 of the Code) of the amounts payable or distributable to Executive equals the Reduced Amount). If the Internal Revenue Service (the  IRS ) determines that any Payment is subject to the Excise Tax, then Section 8(e)(iv) hereof shall apply, and the enforcement of Section 8(e)(iv) shall be the exclusive remedy to the Company.       
  (iv)        Adjustments.    If, notwithstanding any reduction described in Section 8(e)(iii) (or in the absence of any such reduction), the IRS determines that Executive is liable for the Excise Tax as a result of the receipt of one or more Payments, then Executive shall be obligated to surrender or pay back to the Company, within 120 days after a final IRS determination, an amount of such payments or benefits equal to the  Repayment Amount.  The Repayment Amount with respect to such Payments shall be the smallest such amount, if any, as shall be required to be surrendered or paid to the Company so that Executive s net proceeds with respect to such Payments (after taking into account the payment of the excise tax imposed on such Payments) shall be maximized. Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Repayment Amount with respect to such Payments shall be zero if a Repayment Amount of more than zero would not eliminate the Excise Tax imposed  

16 

Exhibit 10.56 

   on such Payments or if a Repayment Amount of more than zero would not maximize the net amount received by Executive from the Payments. If the Excise Tax is not eliminated pursuant to this Section, Executive shall pay the Excise Tax. 
     
  (v)        Acquirer Does Not Assume Performance Share Award.    In the event of a Change in Control, the surviving, continuing, successor, or purchasing corporation or other business entity or parent thereof, as the case may be (the  Acquirer ), may, without the consent of the Executive, assume or continue in full force and effect the Company s rights and obligations under a Performance Share Award or substitute for the Award a substantially equivalent award for the Acquirer s stock.  For purposes of this Section, a Performance Share Award shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the Award confers the right to receive, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Company incentive plan and this Agreement, for each Performance Share or Unvested Common Share subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, other securities or property or a combination thereof) to which a holder of a share of Stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if the Acquirer elects not to assume, continue or substitute for the outstanding Performance Share Awards in connection with a Change in Control prior to the Performance Share Vesting Date, (i) the vesting of 100% of the target number of Performance Shares shall be accelerated and such Performance Shares shall be deemed Vested Performance Shares and one Vested Common Share shall be issued to the Executive for each such Vested Performance Share immediately prior to the Change in Control and (ii) the vesting of any Unvested Common Shares issued in settlement of Performance Share Awards shall be accelerated in full effective immediately prior to the Change in Control, provided that the Executive s employment with the Company has not terminated immediately prior to the Change in Control.  The vesting of Performance Shares and settlement of Awards that were permissible solely by reason of this Section shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control. 
     
  (vi)        Acquirer Does Not Assume Restricted Stock Award.    In the event of a Change in Control, the Acquirer, may, without the consent of the Executive, assume or continue in full force and effect the Company s rights and obligations under a Restricted Stock Award or substitute for the Award a substantially equivalent award for the Acquirer s stock.  For purposes of this Section, a Restricted Stock Award shall be deemed assumed if, following the Change in Control, the Award confers the right to receive, subject to the terms and conditions of the applicable Company incentive plan and this Agreement, for each Share subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change in Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, other securities or property or a combination thereof) to which a holder of a share of Stock on the effective date of the Change in Control was entitled.  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, if the Acquirer elects not to assume, continue or substitute for the outstanding Stock Award in connection with a Change in Control, the vesting of the Shares shall be accelerated in full effective immediately prior to the Change in Control, provided that the Executive s employment with the Company has not terminated immediately prior to the Change in Control.  The vesting of Shares and settlement  

17 

Exhibit 10.56 

   of Awards that were permissible solely by reason of this Section shall be conditioned upon the consummation of the Change in Control. 
    
  9.        Certain Employment Obligations. 
  (a)        Employee Acknowledgement.    The Company and the Executive acknowledge that (i) the Company has a special interest in and derives significant benefit from the unique skills and experience of the Executive; (ii) as a result of the Executive s service with the Company, the Executive will use and have access to some of the Company s proprietary and valuable Confidential Information during the course of the     Executive s employment; (iii) the Confidential Information has been developed and created by the Company at substantial expense and constitutes valuable proprietary assets of the Company, and the Company will suffer substantial damage and irreparable harm which will be difficult to compute if, during the term of the Executive s employment or thereafter,  the Executive should disclose or improperly use such Confidential Information in violation of the provisions of this Agreement; (iv) the Company will suffer substantial damage and irreparable harm which will be difficult to compute if the Executive competes with the company in violation of this Agreement; (v) the Company will suffer substantial damage which will be difficult to compute if, the Executive solicits or interferes with the Company s employees, clients, or customers; (vi) the provisions of this Agreement are reasonable and necessary for the protection of the business of the Company; and (vii) the provisions of this Agreement will not preclude the Executive from obtaining other gainful employment or service. 
  (b)        Non-Solicitation of Employees.    During the Term of Employment and for a period of 24 months following the Executive s termination of that employment with the Company, the Executive shall not, without the written permission of the Company or an affected affiliate, directly or indirectly (i) solicit, employ or retain, or have or cause any other person or entity to solicit, employ or retain, any person who is employed by the Company or was employed by the Company during the 6-month period prior to such solicitation, employment, or retainer; (ii) encourage any such person not to devote his or her full business time to the Company; or (iii) agree to hire or employ any such person. 
  (c)        Non-Solicitation of Third Parties.    During the Term of Employment and for a period of 24 months following the Executive s termination of employment with the Company, the Executive shall not directly or indirectly solicit or otherwise influence any entity with a business arrangement with the Company, including, without limitation, suppliers, sales representatives, lenders, lessors, and lessees, to discontinue, reduce, or otherwise materially or adversely affect such relationship. 
  (d)        Non-Disparagement.    The Executive acknowledges and agrees that the Executive will not defame or criticize the services, business, integrity, veracity, or personal or professional reputation of the Company or any of its directors, officers, employees, affiliates, or agents of any of the foregoing in either a professional or personal manner either during the term of the Executive s employment or thereafter. 

18 

Exhibit 10.56 

   10.         Company Remedies for Executive s Breach of Certain Obligations. 
  (a)        The Executive acknowledges and agrees that in the event that the Executive breaches or threatens to breach Sections 5 or 9 of this Agreement, all compensation and benefits otherwise payable pursuant to this Agreement and the vesting and/or exercisability of all stock options, restricted stock, performance shares and other forms of equity compensation previously awarded to the Executive, notwithstanding the provisions of any agreement evidencing any such award to the contrary, shall immediately cease. 
  (b)        The Company shall give prompt notice to the Executive of its discovery of a breach by the Executive of Sections 5 or 9 of this Agreement.  If it is determined by a vote of not less than two-thirds of the members of the Board that the Executive has breached Section 9 of this Agreement and the Executive has not cured such breach within ten business days of such notice, then: 
  (i)  the Executive shall forfeit to the Company (A) all stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance shares and other equity compensation awards (other than shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units or similar awards) granted to the Executive by the Company which remain outstanding and unexercised or unpaid as of the date of such determination by the Board (the    Breach Determination Date   ) and (B) all shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units and similar awards granted to the Executive by the Company which continue to be held by the Executive as of the Breach Determination Date to the extent that such awards vested during the Forfeiture Period (as defined below); and 
  (i)        the Executive shall pay to the Company all gains realized by the Executive upon (A) the exercise by or payment in settlement to the Executive on and after the commencement of the Forfeiture Period of stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance shares and other equity compensation awards (other than shares of restricted stock, restricted stock units or similar awards) granted to the Executive by the Company and (B) the sale on and after the commencement of the Forfeiture Period of shares or other property received by the Executive pursuant to awards of restricted stock, restricted stock units or similar awards granted to the Executive by the Company and which vested during the Forfeiture Period. 
  (c)        For purposes of this Section, the gain realized by the Executive upon the exercise or payment in settlement of stock options, stock appreciation rights, performance shares and other equity compensation awards shall be equal to (A) the closing sale price on the date of exercise or settlement (as reported on the stock exchange or market system constituting the principal market for the shares subject to the applicable award) of the number of vested shares issued to the Executive upon such exercise or settlement, reduced by the purchase price, if any, paid by the Executive to acquire such shares, or (B) if any such award was settled by payment in cash to the Executive, the gain realized by the Executive shall be equal to the amount of cash paid to the Executive.  Further, for purposes of this Section, the gain realized by the Executive upon the sale of shares or other property received by the Executive pursuant to awards of restricted stock, restricted stock units or similar awards shall be equal to the gross proceeds of such sale realized by the Executive.  Gains determined for purposes of this Section shall be determined without regard to any subsequent  

19 

Exhibit 10.56 

   increase or decrease in the market price of the Company s stock or taxes paid by or withheld from the Executive with respect to such transactions. 
  (d)        For the purposes of this Section, the    Forfeiture Period    shall be the period ending on the Breach Determination Date and beginning on the earlier of (A) the date six months prior to the Breach Determination Date or (B) the business day immediately preceding the date of the Executive s termination of employment with the Company. 
  (e)        The Executive agrees to pay to the Company immediately upon the Breach Determination Date the amount payable by the Executive to the Company pursuant to this Section. 
  (f)        The Executive acknowledges that money will not adequately compensate the Company for the substantial damages that will arise upon the breach or threatened breach of Sections 5 or 9 of this Agreement and that the Company will not have any adequate remedy at law.  For this reason, such breach or threatened breach will not be subject to the arbitration clause in Section 19; rather, the Company will be entitled, in addition to other rights and remedies, to specific performance, injunctive relief, and other equitable relief to prevent or restrain such breach or threatened breach.  The Company may obtain such relief from an arbitrator pursuant to Section 19 hereof, or by simultaneously seeking arbitration under Section 19 and a temporary injunction from a court pending the outcome of the arbitration.  It shall be the Company s sole and exclusive right to elect which approach to use to vindicate its rights.  The Executive further agrees that in the event of a breach or threatened breach, the Company shall be entitled to obtain an immediate injunction and restraining order to prevent such breach and/or threatened breach and/or continued breach, without posting a bond or having to prove irreparable harm or damages, and to obtain all costs and expenses, including reasonable attorneys  fees and costs.  In addition, the existence of any claim or cause of action by the Executive against the Company, whether predicated on this Agreement or otherwise, shall not constitute a defense to the enforcement by the Company of the restrictive covenants in this Agreement. 
               (g)      Recoupment.     Executive hereby understands and agrees that the Executive is subject to the Company s recoupment policy.  Under the current policy applicable to the Company s senior executives, subject to the discretion and approval of the Board, the Company may, to the extent permitted by governing law, require reimbursement of any cash payments and reimbursement and/or cancellation of any Performance Share or Common Shares issued in settlement of a Performance Share to the Executive where all of the following factors are present: (1) the award was predicated upon the achievement of certain financial results that were subsequently the subject of a material restatement, (2) the Board determines that the Executive engaged in fraud or intentional misconduct that was a substantial contributing cause to the need for the restatement, and (3) a lower award would have been made to the Executive based upon the restated financial results. In each instance, the Company may seek to recover the Executive s entire gain received by the Executive within the relevant period, plus a reasonable rate of interest.       
  11.         Exercise of Stock Options Following Termination.    If the Executive's employment terminates, Executive (or the Executive's estate) may exercise the Executive's right to purchase any vested stock under the stock options granted to Executive by the Company as provided in the  

20 

Exhibit 10.56 

   applicable stock option agreement or Company plan.  All such purchases must be made by the Executive in accordance with the applicable stock option plans and agreements between the parties. 
  12.         Successors; Binding Agreement.    This Agreement and all rights of the Executive hereunder shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive s personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, successors, heirs, distributees, devisees and legatees.  If the Executive should die while any amounts would still be payable to the Executive hereunder, all such amounts shall be paid in accordance with the terms of this Agreement and applicable law to the Executive s beneficiary pursuant to a written designation of beneficiary  ,   or, if there is no effective written designation of beneficiary by the Executive, to the Executive s estate. 
  13.         Insurance and Indemnity.    The Company shall, to the extent permitted by law, include the Executive during the Term of Employment under any directors and officers  liability insurance policy maintained for its directors and officers, with coverage at least as favorable to the Executive in amount and each other material respect as the coverage of other officers covered thereby.  The Company s obligation to provide insurance and indemnify the Executive shall survive expiration or termination of this Agreement with respect to proceedings or threatened proceedings based on acts or omissions of the Executive occurring during the Executive s employment with the Company.  Such obligations shall be binding upon the Company s successors and assigns and shall inure to the benefit of the Executive s heirs and personal representatives. 
  14.         Notice.    For the purposes of this Agreement, notices, demands and all other communications provided for in the Agreement shall be in writing and shall be deemed to have been duly given when delivered or (unless otherwise specified) mailed by United States registered mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, addressed as follows: 
  If to the Executive:    James S. Fassio 
  President and Chief Development Officer 
  5130 Hacienda Drive 
  Dublin, CA 94568-7579 
    
  If to the Company:    Ross Stores, Inc. 
  5130 Hacienda Drive 
  Dublin, CA 94568-7579 
  Attention: General Counsel  
  or to such other address as any party may have furnished to the other in writing in accordance herewith, except that notices of change of address shall be effective only upon receipt. 
  15.         Complete Agreement; Modification, Waiver; Entire Agreement.    This Agreement, along with any compensation and benefits summary, stock option, restricted stock, performance share or other equity compensation award agreements between the parties, represents the complete agreement of the parties with respect to the subject matter hereof and supersedes all prior and contemporaneous agreements, promises or representations of the parties, including any prior employment agreement or similar agreement between the parties, except those relating to repayment  

21 

Exhibit 10.56 

   of signing and related bonuses, or relocation expense reimbursements.  To the extent that the bonus payment provisions (i.e., post-termination bonus payments) provided in this Agreement differ from the provisions of the Company s incentive bonus plans (currently the Incentive Compensation Plan) or any replacement plans, such bonus payments shall be paid pursuant to the provisions of this Agreement except to the extent expressly prohibited by law.  Except as provided by Section 22 [Compliance with Section 409A], no provision of this Agreement may be amended or modified except in a document signed by the Executive and such person as may be designated by the Company.  No waiver by the Executive or the Company of any breach of, or lack of compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement by the other party shall be considered a waiver of any other condition or provision or the same condition or provision at another time.  To the extent that this Agreement is in any way deemed to be inconsistent with any prior or contemporaneous compensation and benefits summary, stock option, restricted stock, performance share or other equity compensation award agreements between the parties, or term sheet referencing such specific awards, the terms of this Agreement shall control.  No agreements or representations, oral or otherwise, with respect to the subject matter hereof have been made by either party which are not set forth expressly in this Agreement.  This Agreement shall be modified to comply with any federal securities law or rule or any NASDAQ listing rule adopted to comply therewith. 
  16.         Governing Law - Severability.    The validity, interpretation, construction, performance, and enforcement of this Agreement shall be governed by the laws of the state in which the Executive s principle place of employment described in Section 3 is located without reference to that state s choice of law rules.  If any provision of this Agreement shall be held or deemed to be invalid, illegal, or unenforceable in any jurisdiction, for any reason, the invalidity of that provision shall not have the effect of rendering the provision in question unenforceable in any other jurisdiction or in any other case or of rendering any other provisions herein unenforceable, but the invalid provision shall be substituted with a valid provision which most closely approximates the intent and the economic effect of the invalid provision and which would be enforceable to the maximum extent permitted in such jurisdiction or in such case. 
  17.         Mitigation.    In the event the Executive s employment with the Company terminates for any reason, the Executive shall not be obligated to seek other employment following such termination.  However, any amounts due the Executive under Sections 8(a)(i); 8(a)(ii); 8(e)(i)(a), (b), (d) or (e) shall be offset by any cash remuneration, health care coverage and/or estate planning reimbursements attributable to any subsequent employment or consulting/independent contractor arrangement that the Executive may obtain during the period of payment of compensation under this Agreement following the termination of the Executive s employment with the Company. 
  18.         Withholding.    All payments required to be made by the Company hereunder to the Executive or the Executive s estate or beneficiaries shall be subject to the withholding of such amounts as the Company may reasonably determine it should withhold pursuant to any applicable law.  To the extent permitted, the Executive may provide all or any part of any necessary withholding by contributing Company stock with value, determined on the date such withholding is due, equal to the number of shares contributed multiplied by the closing price per share as reported on the  

22 

Exhibit 10.56 

   securities exchange constituting the primary market for the Company s stock on the date preceding the date the withholding is determined. 
  19.         Arbitration.    The Company and Executive shall resolve all disputes or claims relating to or arising out of the parties' employment relationship or this Agreement (including, but not limited to, any claims of breach of contract, wrongful termination, or age, race, sex, disability or other discrimination) in accordance with the Company's then-current Dispute Resolution Agreement ("Arbitration Agreement").  In the event that Executive has not signed the Arbitration Agreement, the Executive and the Company hereby mutually agree that all such disputes shall be fully, finally and exclusively resolved by binding arbitration conducted by the American Arbitration Association in the city in which the Executive s principal place of employment is located by an arbitrator mutually agreed upon by the parties hereto or, in the absence of such agreement, by an arbitrator selected in accordance with the then-current Employment  Arbitration Rules of the American Arbitration Association (which can be found at www.adr.org under "Rules   Procedures"), provided, however, that nothing in this arbitration provision or the Arbitration Agreement shall prevent either the Executive or the Company from seeking interim or temporary injunctive or equitable relief from a court of competent jurisdiction pending arbitration.       
  If there is termination of the Executive s employment with the Company followed by a dispute as to whether the Executive is entitled to the benefits provided under this Agreement, then, during the period of that dispute the Company shall pay the Executive 50% of the amount specified in Section 8 hereof (except that the Company shall pay 100% of any insurance premiums provided for in Section 8), if, and only if, the Executive agrees in writing that if the dispute is resolved against the Executive, the Executive shall promptly refund to the Company all such payments received by, or made by the Company on behalf of, the Executive.   If the dispute is resolved in the Executive s favor, promptly after resolution of the dispute the Company shall pay the Executive the sum that was withheld during the period of the dispute plus interest at the rate provided in Section 1274(d) of the Code, compounded quarterly.  
  20.         Attorney s Fees.    Each party shall bear its own attorney s fees and costs incurred in any action or dispute arising out of this Agreement. 
  21.         Miscellaneous.    No right or interest to, or in, any payments shall be assignable by the Executive; provided, however, that the Executive shall not be precluded from designating in writing one or more beneficiaries to receive any amount that may be payable after the Executive s death and the legal representative of the Executive s estate shall not be precluded from assigning any right hereunder to the person or persons entitled thereto.  This Agreement shall be binding upon and shall inure to the benefit of the Executive, the Executive s heirs and legal representatives and, the Company and its successors. 
  22.         Compliance with Section 409A.    Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement to the contrary, the provision, time and manner of payment or distribution of all compensation and benefits provided by this Agreement that constitute nonqualified deferred compensation subject to and not exempted from the requirements of Code Section 409A (   Section 409A Deferred Compensation   ) shall be subject to, limited by and construed in accordance with  

23 

Exhibit 10.56 

   the requirements of Code Section 409A and all regulations and other guidance promulgated by the Secretary of the Treasury pursuant to such Section (such Section, regulations and other guidance being referred to herein as    Section 409A   ), including the following: 
  (a)        Separation from Service.    Payments and benefits constituting Section 409A Deferred Compensation otherwise payable or provided pursuant to Section 8 upon the Executive s termination of employment shall be paid or provided only at the time of a termination of the Executive s employment that constitutes a Separation from Service.  For the purposes of this Agreement, a    Separation from Service    is a separation from service within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.409A-1(h). 
  (b)        Six-Month Delay Applicable to Specified Employees.    If, at the time of a Separation from Service of the Executive, the Executive is a  specified employee  within the meaning of Section 409A(a)(2)(B)(i) (a    Specified Employee   ), then any payments and benefits constituting Section 409A Deferred Compensation to be paid or provided pursuant to Section 8 upon the Separation from Service of the Executive shall be paid or provided commencing on the later of (i) the date that is six months after the date of such Separation from Service or, if earlier, the date of death of the Executive (in either case, the    Delayed Payment Date   ), or (ii) the date or dates on which such Section 409A Deferred Compensation would otherwise be paid or provided in accordance with Section 8.  All such amounts that would, but for this Section 22(b), become payable prior to the Delayed Payment Date shall be accumulated and paid on the Delayed Payment Date. 
  (c)        Health Care and Estate Planning Benefits.    In the event that all or any of the health care or estate planning benefits to be provided as a result of a Participant s Separation from Service constitute Section 409A Deferred Compensation, the Company shall provide for such benefits constituting Section 409A Deferred Compensation in a manner that complies with Section 409A.  To the extent necessary to comply with Section 409A, the Company shall determine the health care premium cost necessary to provide such benefits constituting Section 409A Deferred Compensation for the applicable coverage period and shall pay such premium cost which becomes due and payable during the applicable coverage period on the applicable due date for such premiums; provided, however, that if the Executive is a Specified Employee, the Company shall not pay any such premium cost until the Delayed Payment Date.  If the Company s payment pursuant to the previous sentence is subject to a Delayed Payment Date, the Executive shall pay the premium cost otherwise payable by the Company prior to the Delayed Payment Date, and on the Delayed Payment Date the Company shall reimburse the Executive for such Company premium cost paid by the Executive and shall pay the balance of the Company s premium cost necessary to provide such benefit coverage for the remainder of the applicable coverage period as and when it becomes due and payable over the applicable period. 
  (d)        Stock-Based Awards.    The vesting of any stock-based compensation awards which constitute Section 409A Deferred Compensation and are held by the Executive, if the Executive is a Specified Employee, shall be accelerated in accordance with this Agreement to the extent applicable; provided, however, that the payment in settlement of any such awards shall occur on the Delayed Payment Date.  Any stock based compensation which vests and becomes payable  

24 

Exhibit 10.56 

   upon a Change in Control in accordance with Section 8(e)(i) shall not be subject to this Section 22(d). 
  (e)        Installments.    Executive s right to receive any installment payments payable hereunder shall be treated as a right to receive a series of separate payments and, accordingly, each such installment payment shall at all times be considered a separate and distinct payment for purposes of Section 409A. 
  (f)        Reimbursements.    To the extent that any reimbursements payable to Executive pursuant to this Agreement are subject to the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, such reimbursements shall be paid to Executive no later than December 31 of the year following the year in which the cost was incurred; the amount of expenses reimbursed in one year shall not affect the amount eligible for reimbursement in any subsequent year; and Executive s right to reimbursement under this Agreement will not be subject to liquidation or exchange for another benefit. 
  (g)        Rights of the Company; Release of Liability.    It is the mutual intention of the Executive and the Company that the provision of all payments and benefits pursuant to this Agreement be made in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A.  To the extent that the provision of any such payment or benefit pursuant to the terms and conditions of this Agreement would fail to comply with the applicable requirements of Section 409A, the Company may, in its sole and absolute discretion and without the consent of the Executive, make such modifications to the timing or manner of providing such payment and/or benefit to the extent it determines necessary or advisable to comply with the requirements of Section 409A; provided, however, that the Company shall not be obligated to make any such modifications.  Any such modifications made by the Company shall, to the maximum extent permitted in compliance with the requirements of Section 409A, preserve the aggregate monetary face value of such payments and/or benefits provided by this Agreement in the absence of such modification; provided, however, that the Company shall in no event be obligated to pay any interest or other compensation in respect of any delay in the provision of such payments or benefits in order to comply with the requirements of Section 409A.  The Executive acknowledges that (i) the provisions of this Section 22 may result in a delay in the time at which payments would otherwise be made pursuant to this Agreement and (ii) the Company is authorized to amend this Agreement, to void or amend any election made by the Executive under this Agreement and/or to delay the payment of any monies and/or provision of any benefits in such manner as may be determined by the Company, in its discretion, to be necessary or appropriate to comply with Section 409A (including any transition or grandfather rules thereunder) without prior notice to or consent of the Executive.  The Executive hereby releases and holds harmless the Company, its directors, officers and stockholders from any and all claims that may arise from or relate to any tax liability, penalties, interest, costs, fees or other liability incurred by the Executive as a result of the application of Code Section 409A. 
  23.         Future Equity Compensation.    The Executive understands and acknowledges that all awards, if any, of stock options, restricted stock, performance shares and other forms of equity compensation by the Company are made at the sole discretion of the Board or such other committee or person designated by the Board.  The Executive further understands and acknowledges, however, that unless the Executive has executed this Agreement and each successive amendment extending  

25 

Exhibit 10.56 

   the Initial Term or any subsequent Renewal Term of the Agreement as may be agreed to by the Company and the Executive, it is the intention of the Board and the Executive that, notwithstanding any continued employment with the Company, (a) the Company shall have no obligation to grant any award of stock options, restricted stock, performance shares or any other form of equity compensation which might otherwise have been granted to the Executive on or after the intended commencement of the Initial Term or such successive Renewal Term for which the Executive has failed to sign the Agreement or the applicable Term of Employment extension amendment and (b) any such award which is nevertheless granted to the Executive after the intended commencement of the Initial Term or Renewal Term for which the Executive has failed to sign such Agreement or applicable extension amendment shall not vest unless and until the Executive has executed the Agreement or applicable extension amendment, notwithstanding the provisions of any agreement evidencing such award to the contrary. 
  IN WITNESS WHEREOF  , the parties have executed this Executive Employment Agreement effective as of the date and year first above written. 
                   ROSS STORES, INC. 
      
    EXECUTIVE 

/s/Michael Balmuth 
      
    /s/James S. Fassio 
      By:  Michael Balmuth 
      
    James S. Fassio 
      Executive Chairman 
      
    President and Chief Development Officer 

26 

Exhibit A to Executive Employment Agreement 

   CONFIDENTIAL SEPARATION AGREEMENT AND GENERAL RELEASE 
    
  This is an Agreement between ______________ ( Executive ) and Ross Stores, Inc. ( Ross ).  The parties agree to the following terms and conditions: 
    
           1. 
    Executive ______________ employment with Ross effective ______________ (the  Separation Date ). 
              2. 
    Any inquiries by prospective employers or others should be referred to Ross  third party provider The Work Number, phone number 1-800-367-5690 or http://www.theworknumber.com. 
              3. 
    Executive understands that the Executive Employment Agreement, effective _______ ( Executive Agreement ), requires Executive to execute this General Release as a condition to receiving cash payments, benefits and equity as may be provided under the terms of the Executive Agreement. 
       
           4. 
    In consideration for Ross  promises herein, Executive knowingly and voluntarily releases and forever discharges Ross, and all parent corporations, affiliates, subsidiaries, divisions, successors and assignees, as well as the current and former employees, attorneys, officers, directors and agents thereof (collectively referred to throughout the remainder of this Agreement as  Releasees ), of and from any and all claims, judgments, promises, agreements, obligations, damages, losses, costs, expenses (including attorneys  fees) or liabilities of whatever kind and character, known and unknown, which Executive may now have, has ever had, or may in the future have, arising from or in any way connected with any and all matters from the beginning of time to the date hereof, including but not limited to any alleged causes of action for:  

Title VII of the Civil Rights Act of 1964, as amended 
                
    The National Labor Relations Act, as amended 
                  
    The Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended 
                
    The Immigration Reform and Control Act, as amended 
                
    The Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990, as amended 
                
    The Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967, as amended 
                
    The Workers Adjustment and Retraining Notification Act, as amended 
                
    The Occupational Safety and Health Act, as amended 
                   
    California Fair Employment and Housing Act   Cal. Gov t Code   12900 et seq.  
                
    Statutory Provision Regarding Retaliation/Discrimination for Filing a Workers Compensation Claim   Cal. Lab. Code  132a (1) to (4) 
                
    Statutory Provision Regarding Representations and Relocation of Employment (Cal. Lab. Code  970 et seq.) 
       ___________                                                                                                                            __________ 
  Executive s Initials                                                                                                                          Ross  Initials 
  1 

Exhibit A to Executive Employment Agreement 

California Unruh Civil Rights Act   Civ. Code   51 et seq.  
                
    California Sexual Orientation Bias Law   Cal. Lab. Code  1101 et seq. 
                
    California AIDS Testing and Confidentiality Law   Cal. Health   Safety Code  199.20 et seq. 
                
    California Confidentiality of Medical Information   Cal. Civ. Code  56 et seq. 
                
    California Smokers  Rights Law   Cal. Lab. Code  96 
                
    California Parental Leave Law   Cal. Lab. Code  230.7 et seq. 
                
    California Apprenticeship Program Bias Law   Cal. Lab. Code  3070 et seq.  
                
    California Wage Payment Act, as amended 
                 
    California Whistleblower Protection Law   Cal. Lab. Code   1102-5(a) to (c)  
                
    California Military Personnel Bias Law   Cal. Mil.   Vet. Code  394 et seq.  
                
    California Family and Medical Leave   Cal. Lab. Code  233  
                
    California Parental Leave for School Visits Law   Cal. Lab. Code  230.7 et seq.  
                
    California Electronic Monitoring of Employees   Cal. Lab. Code  435 et seq. 
                
    Cal/OSHA law, as amended 
                
    California Consumer Reports: Discrimination Law   Cal. Civ. Code  1786.10 et seq. 
                
    California Political Activities of Employees Act   Cal. Lab. Code  1101 et seq.  
                
    California Domestic Violence Victim Employment Leave Act   Cal. Lab. Code  230.1  
                 
    California Court Leave Law   Cal. Lab. Code  230   
                 
    Any other federal, state or local civil or human rights law or any other local, state or federal law, regulation or ordinance 
                
    Any public policy, contract, tort, or common law, or 
                
    Any claim for costs, fees, or other expenses including attorneys  fees incurred in these matters 
       
           5. 
    This Agreement does not prevent Executive from filing a charge of discrimination with the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, although by signing this Agreement Executive waives his or her right to recover any damages or other relief in any claim or suit brought by or through the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission or any other state or local agency on his or her behalf under any federal or state discrimination law, except where prohibited by law.  Executive agrees to release and discharge Ross not only from any and all claims which he or she could make on his or her own behalf but also specifically waive any right to become, and promise not to become, a member of any class in any proceeding or case in which a claim or claims against Ross may arise, in whole or in part, from any event which occurred as of the date of this Agreement.  Executive agrees to pay for any legal fees or costs incurred by Ross as a result of any breach of the promises in this paragraph.  The parties agree that if Executive, by no action of his or her own, becomes a mandatory member of any class from which he or she cannot, by operation of law or order of court, opt out, Executive shall not be required to pay for any legal fees or costs incurred by Ross as a result. 
       
    ___________                                                                                                                            __________ 
  Executive s Initials                                                                                                                          Ross  Initials 
  2 

Exhibit A to Executive Employment Agreement 

6. 
    Executive affirms that he or she has been paid and/or has received all leave (paid or unpaid), compensation, wages, bonuses, commissions, and/or benefits to which he or she may be entitled and that no other leave (paid or unpaid), compensation, wages, bonuses, commissions and/or benefits are due to him or her, except as provided in this Agreement.  Executive furthermore affirms that he or she has no known workplace injuries or occupational diseases and has been provided and/or has not been denied any leave requested, including any under the Family and Medical Leave Act or any other leaves authorized by federal or state law, and that Executive has not reported any purported improper, unethical or illegal conduct or activities to any supervisor, manager, executive human resources representative or agent of Ross Stores and has no knowledge of any such improper, unethical or illegal conduct or activities.  Executive additionally represents and affirms that during the course of employment at Ross, Executive has taken no actions contrary to or inconsistent with Executive s job responsibilities or the best interests of Ross  business. 
       
           7. 
    The parties expressly acknowledge that those certain employment obligations set forth in the Executive Agreement, including but not limited to all obligations set forth in Paragraph 9 of the Executive Agreement, shall remain in full force and effect for the time period(s) specified in the Executive Agreement.  
       
           8. 
    Executive agrees that this is a private agreement and that he or she will not discuss the fact that it exists or its terms with anyone else except with his or her spouse, attorney, accountant, or as required by law.  Further, Executive agrees not to defame, disparage or demean Ross in any way (excluding actions or communications expressly required or permitted by law). 
       
           9. 
    Any party to this Agreement may bring an action in law or equity for its breach.  Unless otherwise ordered by the Court, only the provisions of this Agreement alleged to have been breached shall be disclosed.   
       
           10. 
    This Agreement has been made in the State of California and the law of said State shall apply to it.  If any part of this Agreement is found to be invalid, the remaining parts of the Agreement will remain in effect as if no invalid part existed.   
       
           11. 
    This Agreement sets forth the entire agreement between the parties hereto, and fully supersedes any prior agreements or understandings between the parties, except for any confidentiality, trade secrets and inventions agreements previously entered into with the company (which will remain in full force and effect), and may not be modified except in a writing agreed to and signed by both parties, providing however that Employer may modify this form of agreement from time to time solely as needed to comply with federal, state or local laws in effect that the time this Agreement is to be executed.  Executive acknowledges that he or she has not relied on any representations, promises, or agreements of any kind made to him or her in connection with his or her decision to accept this Agreement except for those set forth in this Agreement. 
       
           12. 
    Executive further agrees to make him or herself available as needed and fully cooperate with Ross in defending any anticipated, threatened, or actual litigation that currently exists, or may  
       ___________                                                                                                                            __________ 
  Executive s Initials                                                                                                                          Ross  Initials 
  3 

Exhibit A to Executive Employment Agreement 

arise subsequent to the execution of this Agreement.  Such cooperation includes, but is not limited to, meeting with internal Ross employees to discuss and review issues which Executive was directly or indirectly involved with during employment with Ross, participating in any investigation conducted by Ross either internally or by outside counsel or consultants, signing declarations or witness statements, preparing for and serving as a witness in any civil or administrative proceeding by both depositions or a witness at trial, reviewing documents and similar activities that Ross deems necessary. Executive further agrees to make him or herself available as needed and cooperate in answering questions regarding any previous or current project Executive worked on while employed by Ross so as to insure a smooth transition of responsibilities and to minimize any adverse consequences of Executive s departure. 
    
  FOR 40+ 
           13. 
    Waiver  :  By signing this Agreement, Executive acknowledges that he or she: 
              (a) 
    Has carefully read and understands this Agreement; 
              (b) 
    Has been given a full twenty-one (21) days within which to consider the terms of this Agreement and consult with an attorney of his or her choice, and to the extent he or she executes this Agreement prior to expiration of the full twenty-one (21) days, knowingly and voluntarily waives that period following consultation with an attorney of his or her choice; 
              (c) 
    Is, through this Agreement, releasing Ross from any and all claims he or she may have against it that have arisen as of the date of this Agreement, including but not limited to, rights or claims arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (29 U.S.C.  62l,   et seq  .); 
              (d) 
    Knowingly and voluntarily agrees to all of the terms set forth in this Agreement; 
              (e) 
    Knowingly and voluntarily intends to be legally bound by the same; 
              (f) 
    Is hereby advised in writing to consider the terms of this Agreement and to consult with an attorney of his or her choice prior to executing this Agreement; 
              (g) 
    Has consulted with an attorney of his or her choosing prior to signing this Agreement; 
              (h) 
    Understands that rights or claims under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (29 U.S.C.   621,   et seq  .) that may arise after the date of this Agreement are not waived; 
              (i) 
    Has a full seven (7) days following the execution of this Agreement to revoke this Agreement ("the Revocation Period") in writing and hereby is advised that this Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until the Revocation Period has expired. 
       
    ___________                                                                                                                            __________ 
  Executive s Initials                                                                                                                          Ross  Initials 
  4 

Exhibit A to Executive Employment Agreement 

14. 
    Executive fully understands the final and binding effect of the Agreement.  Executive acknowledges that he or she signs this Agreement voluntarily of his or her own free will. 
       
  The parties hereto knowingly and voluntarily executed this Agreement as of the date set forth below: 
    
  Dated: _______________________    By:_________________________ 
       ( Executive ) 

Dated: _______________________                          By:_________________________ 
       ROSS STORES, INC. ( Ross ) 
    
    ___________                                                                                                                            __________ 
  Executive s Initials                                                                                                                          Ross  Initials 
  5 

</EX-10.56>

<EX-21>
 6
 exhibit21fy15subsidiaries.htm
 EXHIBIT 21

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 21 
    
  SUBSIDIARIES   AFFILIATES 
    
  Certain subsidiaries and affiliates of the Registrant and their subsidiaries are listed below.  The names of certain subsidiaries, which considered in the aggregate would not constitute a significant subsidiary, have been omitted. 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 7
 exhibit23rossfy15consent.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 23 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statements No. 33-61373, No. 333-06119, No. 333-34988, No. 333-51478, No. 333-56831, No. 333-115836, and No. 333-151116 on Form S-8, and  No. 333-198738 on Form S-3 of our report dated   March 29, 2016  , relating to the consolidated financial statements of Ross Stores, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ), and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the year ended   January 30, 2016  . 

/s/DELOITTE   TOUCHE LLP 
    
  San Francisco, California 
  March 29, 2016    

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 8
 rost-20160130xex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.1  
    
  Ross Stores, Inc.   Certification of Chief Executive Officer  Pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302(a)  
    
  I, Barbara Rentler, certify that:  
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Ross Stores, Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    March 29, 2016 
    /s/Barbara Rentler 

Barbara Rentler 

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 9
 rost-20160130xex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.2 
    
  Ross Stores, Inc.   Certification of Chief Financial Officer  Pursuant to Sarbanes-Oxley Act Section 302(a)  
    
  I, Michael J. Hartshorn, certify that:  
    
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Ross Stores, Inc.; 
       
           2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
       
           3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
           4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
       
           (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
       
           (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
       
           (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
       
           (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
       
           5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
       
           (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
       
           (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    March 29, 2016 
    /s/Michael J. Hartshorn 

Michael J. Hartshorn 

Group Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 

and Principal Accounting Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 10
 rost-20160130xex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.1  
    
  Certification of Chief Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,   As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Ross Stores, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended   January 30, 2016   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Barbara Rentler, as Chief Executive Officer of the Company, hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Section 906 ), that, to the best of my knowledge:  

(2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: 
    March 29, 2016 
    /s/Barbara Rentler 

Barbara Rentler 

Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 11
 rost-20160130xex322.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.2  
    
  Certification of Chief Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350,   As Adopted Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Ross Stores, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended   January 30, 2016   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), I, Michael J. Hartshorn, as Chief Financial Officer of the Company, hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( Section 906 ), that, to the best of my knowledge:  

(2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 

Date: 
    March 29, 2016 
    /s/Michael J. Hartshorn 

Michael J. Hartshorn 

Group Senior Vice President, Chief Financial Officer, 

and Principal Accounting Officer 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 12
 rost-20160130.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 13
 rost-20160130.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 14
 rost-20160130_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 15
 rost-20160130_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 16
 rost-20160130_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 17
 rost-20160130_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

