<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20160323_10-K_edgar_data_769397_0000769397-16-000067_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>17317100</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>488989</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>904197</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6111731</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>7182589</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2313918</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>82</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000769397-16-000067.hdr.sgml : 20160323
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20160323160256
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000769397-16-000067
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		119
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20160131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20160323
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20160323

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AUTODESK INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000769397
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				942819853
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14338
		FILM NUMBER:		161523932

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		111 MCINNIS PKWY
		CITY:			SAN RAFAEL
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94903
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4155075000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		111 MCINNIS PKWY
		CITY:			SAN RAFAEL
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94903

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000769397-16-000067.txt : 20160323

10-K
 1
 adsk-0131201610xk.htm
 10-K

10-K 

Table of Contents   

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
  _____________________________________________________________  
  FORM 10-K 

For the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016    
  or 

For the transition period from              to              
  Commission File Number: 0-14338 
  _____________________________________________________________   
  AUTODESK, INC. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter)                   Delaware 
      
    94-2819853 
      (State or other jurisdiction 
  of incorporation or organization) 
      
    (I.R.S. employer 
  Identification No.) 

111 McInnis Parkway, 
  San Rafael, California 
      
    94903 
      (Address of principal executive offices) 
      
    (Zip Code) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (415) 507-5000 
   _____________________________________________________________  
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange 
  on which registered 
      Common Stock, $0.01 Par Value 
      
    The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC 
  (NASDAQ Global Select Market) 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
  _____________________________________________________________  
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.    Yes    x      No      
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( Exchange Act ).    Yes             No    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes    x      No           
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes    x    No           
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.          
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.                           Large accelerated filer    x 
       
    Accelerated filer    o 
      
    Non-accelerated filer    o 
      
    Smaller reporting company    o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined by Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes              No    x 
  As of   July 31, 2015  , the last business day of the registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter, there were approximately 225.6 million shares of the registrant s common stock outstanding that were held by non-affiliates, and the aggregate market value of such shares held by non-affiliates of the registrant (based on the closing sale price of such shares on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on   July 31, 2015  ) was approximately $11.4 billion. Shares of the registrant s common stock held by each executive officer and director have been excluded in that such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes. 
  As of   March 9, 2016  , the registrant had outstanding   224,493,192   shares of common stock. 
    
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of the Proxy Statement for registrant s Annual Meeting of Stockholders (the  Proxy Statement ), are incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K to the extent stated herein. The Proxy Statement will be filed within 120 days of the registrant s fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016  . 

2016 Form 10-K  1 

Table of Contents   

[THIS PAGE INTENTIONALLY LEFT BLANK] 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  2 

       Table of Contents   

AUTODESK, INC. FORM 10-K 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
       PART I  

Item 1. 
     Business  
    4 

Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    16 

Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    31 

Item 2. 
     Properties  
    32 

Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    32 

Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    32 

PART II  

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    33 

Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    36 

Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    37 

Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    64 

Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    65 

Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    111 

Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    111 

Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    112 

PART III  

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    113 

Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    114 

Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    114 

Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    114 

Item 14. 
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    114 

PART IV  

Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    115 

Signatures  
    117 

2016 Form 10-K  3 

Table of Contents   

FORWARD-LOOKING INFORMATION 
  The discussion in this Annual Report on Form 10-K contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, anticipated future net revenue, future GAAP and non-GAAP (loss) income per share, operating margin, operating expenses, billings, annualized recurring revenue, annualized revenue per subscription, other future financial results (by product type and geography) and subscriptions, the effectiveness of our efforts to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our expectations regarding the continued transition of our business model, revenue from our channel partners and changes in mix of channel partners, our ability to increase our subscription base, expected market trends, including the growth of cloud, mobile and social computing, the effect of unemployment and availability of credit, the effects of mixed global economic conditions, our expectations for our restructuring, the effects of revenue recognition, our backlog, expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses and the predictability and ratability of our revenue over time, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, expectations regarding our cash needs, the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results, our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products, our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives, and the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the effects of potential non-cash charges on our financial results and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, remediations to our controls environment, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as  may,   believe,   could,   anticipate,   would,   might,   plan,   expect,  and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of a number of factors, including those set forth below in Item 1A,  Risk Factors,  and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. 
    
    PART I 
    
             ITEM 1. 
    BUSINESS 
       
  Note: A glossary of terms used in this Form 10-K appears at the end of this Item 1. 
    
  GENERAL 
    
  We are a global leader in design software and services, offering customers productive business solutions through powerful technology products and services. We serve customers in the architecture, engineering and construction; manufacturing; and digital media, consumer, and entertainment industries. Our sophisticated software products enable our customers to experience their ideas before they are real. Customers are able to imagine, design, and create their ideas by visualizing, simulating and analyzing real-world performance early in the design process by creating and manipulating digital prototypes. These capabilities allow our customers to foster innovation, optimize and improve their designs, save time and money, improve quality, communicate plans, and collaborate with others. Our professional software products are sold globally, both directly to customers and through a network of resellers and distributors. Additionally, we offer tools and user communities for personal design and creativity. These applications and user communities are available over the Internet and through various digital storefronts, including the Apple App Store and the Google Play Store.  
    
  Segments 
    
  We report based on four reportable operating segments: 

Architecture, Engineering, and Construction ( AEC ), which accounted for   38%   of our net revenue in fiscal   2016  ; 

Manufacturing ( MFG ), which accounted for   29%   of our net revenue in fiscal   2016  ;  

2016 Form 10-K  4 

     Table of Contents   

Platform Solutions and Emerging Business ( PSEB ), which accounted for   27%   of our net revenue in fiscal   2016  ; and 

Media and Entertainment ( M E ), which accounted for   6%   of our net revenue in fiscal   2016  . 
       
  A summary of our net revenue and results of operations for our business segments is found in Note   13  ,    Segments  ,  in the Notes to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  Our AEC, MFG, and PSEB segments derive revenue from the sale of licenses and subscriptions for software products and services to customers who design, build, and own buildings, infrastructure, and manufactured products. In addition to software products, the AEC, MFG, and PSEB segments offer a range of services, including consulting, support, and training, largely dedicated to enhancing our ability to sell licenses and subscriptions to our software products. Our M E segment derives revenue from the sale of licenses and subscriptions for software products to creative professionals, post-production facilities, and broadcasters for a variety of applications, including feature films, television programs, commercials, music and corporate videos, interactive game production, web design, and interactive web streaming. In addition, our animation products produced by our M E segment are often used by customers of products from our other segments for the visualization of their designs. 
    
  The principal products and services of these segments include the following:  

Flagship products, which accounted for approximately   45%   of our net revenue in fiscal   2016  , are our core individual horizontal, vertical, and model-based design products including AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD Mechanical, AutoCAD Civil 3D, AutoCAD Architecture, AutoCAD Map, Autodesk Maya, and 3ds Max. 

Suites, which accounted for approximately   37%   of our net revenue in fiscal   2016  , are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective, including Autodesk Building Design Suites, Autodesk Product Design Suites, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suites, and AutoCAD Design Suites. 

New and Adjacent products, which accounted for approximately   18%   of our net revenue in fiscal   2016  , are new product offerings as well as products that are not considered flagship or suites, including Delcam, Moldflow, Alias Design, Vault, and Autodesk Creative Finishing products. 
       
  Corporate Information 
    
  We were incorporated in California in April 1982 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 1994. Our principal executive office is located at 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, California 94903, and the telephone number at that address is (415) 507-5000. Our internet address is www.autodesk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on the Investor Relations portion of our web site at www.autodesk.com as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. The public may also read and copy any material we file with the SEC at the SEC's Public Reference Room at 100 F Street N.E. Washington, D.C. 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1 (800) SEC-0330. 
    
  PRODUCTS 
    
  The principal product offerings from Autodesk s different segments are as follows: 
    
  AEC 
    
  Our AEC software products help to improve the way building, civil infrastructure, process plant and construction projects are designed, built, and used. A broad portfolio of solutions enables greater efficiency, accuracy, and sustainability across the entire project lifecycle. Our AEC solutions include advanced technology for building information modeling ( BIM ), AutoCAD-based design and documentation productivity software, sustainable design analysis applications, collaboration, and project management solutions. BIM, an integrated process for building and infrastructure design, analysis, documentation, and construction, uses consistent, coordinated information to improve communication and collaboration between the extended project team. AEC provides a comprehensive portfolio of BIM solutions that help customers deliver projects faster and more economically, while minimizing environmental impact. The segment s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal   2016  : 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  5 

Table of Contents   

Autodesk Building Design Suites 
          
  Autodesk Building Design Suites ("BDS") give the power of BIM or computer-aided design ("CAD"), with tools for modeling, visualization, and documentation. With a comprehensive set of tools, BDS gives customers the ability to manage all phases of design and construction. Three editions of BDS are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio. 

Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suites 
       
  The Infrastructure Design Suites are the BIM for Infrastructure design solution that combines intelligent, model-based tools to help the user to gain more accurate, accessible, and actionable insight. With unique access to the Autodesk infrastructure software portfolio, users can benefit throughout the execution and lifecycle of transportation, land, and water projects. Three editions of Infrastructure Design Suites are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio. 

AutoCAD Civil 3D 
       
  AutoCAD Civil 3D products provide a surveying, design, analysis, and documentation solution for civil engineering, including land development, transportation, and environmental projects. Using a model-centric approach that automatically updates documentation as design changes are made, AutoCAD Civil 3D products enable civil engineers, designers, drafters, and surveyors to significantly boost productivity and deliver higher-quality designs and construction documentation faster. With AutoCAD Civil 3D products, the entire project team works from the same consistent, up-to-date model so they stay coordinated throughout all project phases. 

AutoCAD Map 3D 
       
  AutoCAD Map 3D software provides direct access to data needed for infrastructure planning, design, and management activities. AutoCAD Map 3D software helps professionals working on transportation, land development, water, and power projects to more easily create, manage, and analyze design geographic information system and asset data. 

Autodesk Revit  
       
  Purpose-built for BIM, the Autodesk Revit products collect information about a building project and allow this information to be coordinated across all other representations of the project, so that every drawing sheet, 2D and 3D view and schedule is based on internally consistent and complete information from the same underlying building database. The Autodesk Revit products, including AutoCAD Revit Architecture Suite, AutoCAD Revit MEP Suite, and AutoCAD Revit Structure Suite, provide an intuitive, sophisticated, model-based design and documentation system for architects; mechanical, electrical, and plumbing ("MEP") engineers; structural engineers; design-build teams; and other design and building industry professionals. 
    
  MFG 
    
  Our MFG segment provides manufacturers in automotive and transportation, industrial machinery, consumer products and building products with comprehensive digital engineering solutions that bring together data from all phases of the product development and production life cycle creating a single digital model based on Autodesk Inventor software. Our solutions are scalable, attainable, cost-effective, and allow for real-world simulation, enabling a broad group of manufacturers to realize benefits with minimal disruption to existing workflows. In addition, Autodesk is redefining the product development process with the introduction of a cloud-based Product Innovation Platform consisting of next generation technologies like Fusion 360 and PLM 360. These solutions support manufacturers' transformation to "agile" based product development processes versus the traditional "waterfall" cycle conventional PLM technologies offer. MFG s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal   2016  : 

Autodesk Product Design Suites    
       
  Autodesk Product Design Suites ("PDS") is a comprehensive solution for digital prototyping, delivering 3D design, visualization and simulation tools to complete the entire engineering process. The digital prototyping capabilities of PDS can help customers design better products, reduce development costs and get to market faster. Two editions of PDS are available to meet each customer's particular business needs and offer the depth and breadth of the Autodesk portfolio. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  6 

     Table of Contents   

AutoCAD Mechanical 
       
  AutoCAD Mechanical software is purpose-built to accelerate the mechanical design process. AutoCAD Mechanical software offers users significant productivity gains and helps save hours of design time by including all the functionality of AutoCAD software, in addition to comprehensive libraries of standards-based parts and tools for automating common design tasks. 

Autodesk Delcam 
       
  The Autodesk Delcam family of products provides CAD and computer-aided manufacturing ("CAM") software for the manufacturing industry. PowerMILL, Delcam's leading product, is a CAM software solution allowing production of complex shapes, providing our customers with advanced toolpath strategies to minimize machining times and maximize component quality. 

Autodesk Moldflow 
       
  The Autodesk Moldflow family of injection molding simulation software provides tools that help manufacturers optimize the design of plastic parts and injection molds, and study the injection molding process. 

Autodesk Inventor  
       
  Autodesk Inventor allows manufacturers to go beyond 3D design to digital prototyping by giving engineers a comprehensive and flexible set of tools for 3D mechanical design, simulation, analysis, tooling, visualization, and documentation. With Autodesk Inventor, engineers can integrate AutoCAD drawings and model-based design data into a single digital model, creating a virtual representation of a final product that enables them to validate the form, fit, and function of the product before it is ever built.  

PLM 360 is a cloud-based product lifecycle management ("PLM") application that automates key tasks related to the management of processes, projects, and people. Because PLM 360 is on the cloud, software deployment, management and organizational access to data can be achieved instantly compared to traditional PLM technologies. 

Fusion 360 offers a cloud-based product development environment comprising CAD, CAM, and computer-aided engineering ("CAE") software which enables an integrated concept-to-production toolset. Fusion 360 enables manufacturers to integrate industrial design, mechanical engineering, simulation and manufacturing workflows, in a single solution that supports data management and collaboration on the cloud. 
    
  PSEB 
    
  Our PSEB segment includes our design platform product, AutoCAD. AutoCAD underpins our design product offerings for all the industries we serve. For example, our AEC and MFG segments offer tailored versions of AutoCAD software for their respective industries. AutoCAD also provides a platform for our developer partners to build custom solutions for a range of diverse design-oriented markets. PSEB's revenue primarily includes revenue from sales of licenses of our design products, AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, as well as the AutoCAD Design Suite and many other design and consumer products. The segment s principal product offerings included the following during fiscal   2016  : 

AutoCAD 
       
  AutoCAD software, which is our largest single revenue-generating product, is a customizable and extensible CAD application for professional design, drafting, detailing, and visualization. AutoCAD software provides digital tools that can be used independently and in conjunction with other specific applications in fields ranging from construction to manufacturing, civil engineering, and process plant design. 

2016 Form 10-K  7 

Table of Contents   

AutoCAD LT 
       
  AutoCAD LT software is purpose built for professional drafting and detailing. AutoCAD LT includes document sharing capability without the need for software customization or certain advanced functionality found in AutoCAD. Users can share all design data with team members who use AutoCAD or other Autodesk products built on AutoCAD. AutoCAD LT software is our second largest revenue-generating product. 
    
  M E 
    
  Our M E segment consists of two product groups: Animation and Creative Finishing. Animation products are sold as software only and provide tools for digital sculpting, modeling, animation, effects, rendering, and compositing for design visualization, visual effects and games production. Creative Finishing products are sold as software solutions for editing, finishing and visual effects design and color grading. Principal product offerings in our M E segment s Animation and Creative Finishing product groups included the following during fiscal   2016  : 
    
  Animation 

Autodesk Maya 
       
  Autodesk Maya software provides 3D modeling, animation, effects, rendering and compositing solutions that enable film and video artists, game developers, and design visualization professionals to digitally create engaging, lifelike images, realistic animations and simulations, extraordinary visual effects, and full length animated feature films. 

Autodesk 3ds Max 
       
  Autodesk 3ds Max software provides 3D modeling, animation, and rendering solutions that enable game developers, design visualization professionals and visual effects artists to digitally create realistic images, animations, and complex scenes and to digitally communicate abstract or complex mechanical, architectural, engineering, and construction concepts. 
    
  Creative Finishing 

Autodesk Flame and Autodesk Lustre 
       
  Autodesk Flame software is an interactive real-time design, finishing, grading, and visual effects solution for supervised post-production. Autodesk Lustre software is a high-performance color grading solution used by artists for creative look development and final color and lighting effects for both film and television.  
    
  PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT AND INTRODUCTION 
    
  The technology industry is characterized by rapid technological change in computer hardware, operating systems, and software. In addition, our customers  requirements and preferences rapidly evolve, as do their expectations of the performance of our software. To keep pace with these changes, we maintain a vigorous program of new product development to address demands in the marketplace for our products.  
    
  The software industry is undergoing a transition from the personal computer to cloud, social, and mobile computing. In fiscal 2016, we continued to successfully implement a strategic transition of our business model announced in fiscal 2014. We accelerated our move to the cloud and expanded our flexible product license offerings. We continued to expand desktop subscription for a broader range of our product portfolio, expanded our token-based licensing program to more enterprise customers, and continued to expand our industry-leading cloud-based offerings, including the launch of our North American eStore which creates a better customer experience and can meaningfully increase the volume of our online business. These offerings are designed to give our customers even more value and flexibility to use our products, and also to attract new types of customers, such as project-based users and small businesses that have more variable needs. Further, to support our transition, effective February 1, 2016, we discontinued the sale of new commercial seats of most individual software products, which are now exclusively available by desktop subscription, and we plan to discontinue selling perpetual licenses of suites products effective August 1, 2016.  
    
  We dedicate considerable technical and financial resources to research and development to further enhance our existing products and to create new products and technologies to expand our market opportunity. For example, in fiscal 2016, we began  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  8 

     Table of Contents   

investing in an Internet of Things ("IoT") platform integrated with our cloud infrastructure. IoT will allow our customers to develop applications for predictive maintenance, improved design quality, and smarter connected design systems. We believe that IoT will play an increasingly important role for our customers as the buildings and products they design contain embedded sensors and computation. IoT provides a unique opportunity for our customers to connect designing, making, and using. We anticipate ongoing investment in IoT to both serve existing customers and expand market opportunity. 
    
  Research and development expenditures were   $790.0 million   or   32%   of fiscal   2016   net revenue,   $725.2 million   or   29%   of fiscal   2015   net revenue and   $611.1 million   or   27%   of fiscal   2014   net revenue. Our software is primarily developed internally; however, we also use independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. Additionally, we acquire products or technology developed by others by purchasing or licensing products and technology from third parties. We continually review these investments in an effort to ensure that we are generating sufficient revenue or gaining a competitive advantage to justify their costs.  
    
  The majority of our research and product development is performed in the United States, China, Singapore, and Canada. However, we employ experienced software developers in many of our other locations. Translation and localization of our products are performed in a number of local markets, principally Singapore and Switzerland. We generally localize and translate our products into German, French, Italian, Spanish, Russian, Japanese, Korean, and simplified and traditional Chinese. 
    
  We plan to continue to manage significant product development operations internationally over the next several years. We believe that our ability to conduct research and development at various locations throughout the world allows us to optimize product development, lower costs, and integrate local market knowledge into our development activities. We continually assess the significant costs and challenges, including intellectual property protection, against the benefits of our international development activities. 
    
  In addition, our business and our customers benefit from our relationships with a network of over   4,100   third-party developers who develop and sell their own products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers. 
    
  For further discussion regarding risks from our product development and introduction efforts, see   Item 1A  ,    Risk Factors  .  
    
  MARKETING AND SALES 
    
  We license or sell our products and services globally, primarily through indirect channels consisting of distributors and resellers. To a lesser extent we also transact directly with a select set of customers who are primarily large corporations. Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure, where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. We have a network of approximately   2,000   resellers and distributors worldwide. For fiscal   2016  , approximately   79%   of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers, and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. We anticipate that our channel mix will change to support our new business model and are proactively working with our channel partners to ensure a smooth transition. We employ a variety of incentive programs and promotions to align our reseller channel with our business strategies. Sales through our largest distributor, Tech Data Corporation and its affiliates, accounted for   25%  ,   25%  , and   24%   of our net revenue for fiscal years   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between us and Tech Data be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue. No other distributor, reseller, or direct customer accounted for 10% or more of our revenue. 
    
  Our customer-related operations are divided into three geographic regions, the Americas; Europe, Middle East, and Africa ( EMEA ), and Asia Pacific ( APAC ). Each geographic region is supported by global marketing and sales organizations. These organizations develop and manage overall marketing and sales programs and work closely with a network of domestic and international sales offices. Fiscal   2016   net revenue in the Americas, EMEA, and APAC was   $972.8 million   (  39%  ),   $934.6 million   (  37%  ), and   $596.7 million   (  24%  ), respectively. We intend to continue to make our products available in foreign languages. We believe that international sales will continue to comprise the majority of our total net revenue. Adverse economic conditions and currency exchange rates in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. A summary of our financial information by geographic location is found in Note   13  ,    Segments  ,  in the Notes to Consolidated  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  9 

Table of Contents   

Financial Statements. Our international operations and sales subject us to a variety of risks; see   Item 1A  ,    Risk Factors  ,  for further discussion. 
    
  We also work directly with reseller and distributor sales organizations, computer manufacturers, other software developers, and peripherals manufacturers in cooperative advertising, promotions, and trade-show presentations. We employ mass-marketing techniques such as webcasts, seminars, telemarketing, direct mailings, sponsorships, advertising in business and trade journals, and social media. We have a worldwide user group organization and we have created online user communities dedicated to the exchange of information related to the use of our products. 
    
  We generate revenue through several subscription-based business models in addition to perpetual use software license sales. The largest is our maintenance program, under which customers who own a perpetual use license for the most recent version of the underlying product are able to purchase maintenance that provides them with unspecified upgrades when-and-if-available and are able to download e-Learning courses and receive online support over a one year or multi-year maintenance service period. We also offer more flexible term-based license offerings to our customers. 
    
  Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller networks. The loss of, or a significant reduction in, business with any one of our major distributors or large resellers could harm our business; see   Item 1A  ,    Risk Factors  ,  for further discussion. 
    
  CUSTOMER AND RESELLER SUPPORT 
    
  We provide technical support and training to customers through a multi-tiered support model, augmented by direct programs designed to address certain specific customer needs. Most of our customers receive support and training from the resellers and distributors from which they purchased subscriptions or licenses for our products or services, with Autodesk in turn providing second tier support to the resellers and distributors. Other customers are supported directly via self-service using the Autodesk Knowledge Network which guides customers to answers in our online support assets, support forums, webinars or to support representatives using a number of different modalities such as social media, phone, email and webchat. We also support our resellers and distributors through technical product training, sales training classes, webinars and other knowledge sharing programs.  
    
  EDUCATION, SUSTAINABILITY, AND PHILANTHROPIC PROGRAMS 
    
  Education 
    
  Autodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages. We offer free educational licenses of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and educational institutions. In fiscal 2016, we initiated Project Ignite, a free and open learning platform delivering a unique package of technology, learning content, and services created specifically for the classroom. The Project Ignite learning platform additionally offers classroom bundles, which include hardware such as 3D printers and electronics kits along with professional development and training services to help educators.   
    
  Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and postsecondary school markets hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) while using Autodesk's professional-grade 3D design, engineering and entertainment software used in industry. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal   2016  , we also made Autodesk Design Academy curricula available on iTunes U. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users. 
    
  Sustainability Programs 
    
  To help our customers imagine, design, and create a better world, our Sustainability Programs focus our efforts where we can have the greatest impact: providing sustainability solutions, delivering sustainable design learning and training opportunities, expanding access to technology, and leading by example with our sustainable business practices. This benefits our customers, who use our products and services to improve design decisions to have long-term positive social and environmental impacts. Through the Autodesk Foundation, the Autodesk Technology Impact Program, and the Autodesk Entrepreneur Program, we re helping nonprofits and entrepreneurs design high-impact solutions to social and environmental challenges by providing them with funding, training, and easy access to our professional software suites at either no charge or for a small license fee.  

2016 Form 10-K  10 

     Table of Contents   

Climate Change 
    
  Autodesk recognizes inherent opportunities related to climate change, which have potential to expand our business. Opportunities driven by changes in regulation, changes in building code, physical climate parameters and other climate-related developments can directly and indirectly create more demand for existing and new Autodesk products and services in the short and long-term. Opportunities relating to Autodesk s leadership on climate action can further improve our reputation in the marketplace. 
    
  Climate Change Management Actions 
    
  To drive continued progress and meet growing demand, we continue to expand the solutions, education, and support we offer, helping customers secure a competitive advantage for a low carbon future by designing high-performance buildings, resilient cities and infrastructure, and more efficient transportation and products. To continue to grow this market, we provide software and support to early stage entrepreneurs and start-up companies who are designing clean technologies. We plan to expand these offerings in the future based upon demand and opportunity in response to challenges posed by climate change. 
    
  Internally, we are investing in best practices to mitigate our greenhouse gas emissions and climate change risk through investments in renewable energy, energy efficiency, disaster management and recovery strategies, and materials innovation. We are on track to meet our science-based greenhouse gas reduction target of 43% absolute emissions by 2020. 
    
  Climate Change Governance 
    
  Ultimately, our CEO, Carl Bass, has the highest level of direct responsibility for addressing our climate-change related risks and opportunities. Autodesk has established an Environmental Core Team which reports indirectly to Mr. Bass. The Environmental Core Team has direct responsibility for setting and implementing the corporate sustainability strategy, including the climate change strategy.  
    
  Emissions Performance   Other Key Performance Indicators 
    
  Autodesk has reduced its greenhouse gas emissions for its operational boundary by 27% from our fiscal year 2009 baseline to 76,700 metric tons of carbon dioxide equivalent. This reduction was accomplished through increased investment in renewable energy, LEED certification and energy efficiency in our global real estate portfolio, and continued transition from physical software delivery to cloud and electronic software delivery. More information about our sustainability commitment can be found in our annual sustainability reports, which we have published on our website since 2008. 
    
  Philanthropy 
    
  The Autodesk Foundation (the "Foundation"), a privately funded 501(c)(3) charity organization established and solely funded by us, leads our philanthropic efforts. The purpose of the Foundation is twofold: to support employees to create a better world at work, at home, and in the community by matching employee s volunteer time and/or donations to nonprofit organizations; and to support organizations and individuals using design to drive positive social and environmental impact. In the latter case, we use grant funding, software donations, and training to accomplish this goal, selecting the most impactful and innovative organizations around the world, thus, leading to a better future for our planet. On our behalf, the Foundation also administers a discounted software donation program to nonprofit organizations, social and environmental entrepreneurs, and others who are developing design solutions that will shape a more sustainable future.  
    
  DEVELOPER PROGRAMS 
    
  One of our key strategies is to maintain an open-architecture design of our software products to facilitate third-party development of complementary products and industry-specific software solutions. This approach enables customers and third parties to customize solutions for a wide variety of highly specific uses. We offer several programs that provide strategic investment funding, technological platforms, user communities, technical support, forums, and events to developers who develop add-on applications for our products. For example, we have established the Autodesk Spark program to support ideas that push the boundaries of 3D printing and nurture the companies that will advance innovations within 3D printing hardware and software. We have also created the Autodesk Forge program to support innovators that build solutions to facilitate the development of a single connected ecosystem for the future of how things are designed, made, and used. Through our programs, over   4,100   developers in the Autodesk Developer Network create interoperable products that further enhance the range of integrated solutions available to our customers. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  11 

Table of Contents   

COMPETITION 
    
  The markets for our products are highly competitive and subject to rapid change. We strive to increase our competitive separation by investing in research and development, allowing us to bring new products to market and create exciting new versions of existing products that offer compelling efficiencies for our customers. We also compete through investments in marketing and sales to more effectively reach new customers and better serve existing customers. 
    
  Our competitors include large, global, publicly traded companies; small, geographically focused firms; startup firms; and solutions produced in-house by their users. Our primary global competitors in the PSEB, AEC, and MFG segments include Adobe Systems Incorporated, ANSYS, Inc., AVEVA Group plc, Bentley Systems, Incorporated, Dassault Syst mes S.A. and its subsidiary Dassault Syst mes SolidWorks Corp., Environmental Systems Research Institute, Inc. (ESRI), Intergraph Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Hexagon AB, MSC Software Corporation, Nemetschek AG, PTC, 3D Systems, Siemens PLM, and Trimble Navigation Limited. 
    
  Our M E segment also competes with a wide range of different companies from large, global, publicly-traded companies to small private entities. Large organizations that produce products that compete in some or all of our markets include Adobe Systems Incorporated, Apple Inc., Avid Technology, Inc., SONY Corporation, and Technicolor, among others. The media and entertainment market is highly fragmented with complex interdependencies between many of the larger businesses. As a result, some of our competitors also own subsidiaries that are our customers or our partners in developing or bringing to market some of our solutions. In addition to traditional competitors in developed economies, we encounter new competitors in emerging economies. 
    
  The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing power with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The design software market is characterized by vigorous competition in each of the vertical markets in which we compete, both from existing competitors and by entry of new competitors with innovative technologies. Competition is increasingly enhanced by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies and the possibility that competitors in one vertical segment may enter other vertical segments that we serve. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources than we do. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in these industries are likely to continue to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins, and loss of market share, any of which could harm our business. See   Item 1A  ,    Risk Factors  ,  for further discussion of risks regarding competition. 
    
  We believe that our future results depend largely upon our ability to better serve customers by offering new products, including cloud and mobile computing products, whether by internal development or acquisition, and to continue to provide existing product offerings that compete favorably with respect to ease of use, reliability, performance, range of useful features, continuing product enhancements, reputation, price, and training. 
    
  INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY AND LICENSES 
    
  We maintain an active program to legally protect our investment in technology through intellectual property rights. We protect our intellectual property through a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret protections, confidentiality procedures, and contractual provisions. The nature and extent of legal protection associated with each such intellectual property right depends on, among other things, the type of intellectual property right and the given jurisdiction in which such right arises. We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business, including each of our segments. 
    
  Nonetheless, our intellectual property rights may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws and enforcement of the laws of various foreign countries where our products are distributed do not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as U.S. laws. Enforcement of intellectual property rights against alleged infringers can sometimes lead to costly litigation and counterclaims. Our inability to protect our proprietary information could harm our business. 

2016 Form 10-K  12 

     Table of Contents   

From time to time, we receive claims alleging infringement of a third party s intellectual property rights, including patents. Disputes involving our intellectual property rights or those of another party have in the past and may in the future lead to, among other things, costly litigation or product shipment delays, which could harm our business. 
    
  We retain ownership of software we develop. Desktop software is licensed to users pursuant to  click through  or signed license agreements containing restrictions on duplication, disclosure, and transfer. Cloud software and associated services are provided to users pursuant to on-line or signed terms of service agreements containing restrictions on access and use. 
    
  We believe that because of the limitations of laws protecting our intellectual property and the rapid, ongoing technological changes in both the computer hardware and software industries, we must rely principally upon software engineering and marketing skills to continually maintain and enhance our competitive market position. 
    
  While we have recovered some revenue resulting from the unauthorized use of our software products, we are unable to measure the full extent to which piracy of our software products exists. We believe, however, that software piracy is and can be expected to be a persistent problem that negatively impacts our revenue and financial results. We believe that our transition from perpetual use software licenses to a subscription-based business model combined with the change from desktop to cloud-based computing will shift the incentives and means by which software is pirated. 
    
  In addition, through various licensing arrangements, we receive certain rights to intellectual property of others. We expect to maintain current licensing arrangements and to secure licensing arrangements in the future, as needed and to the extent available on reasonable terms and conditions, to support continued development and sales of our products and services. Some of these licensing arrangements require or may require royalty payments and other licensing fees. The amount of these payments and fees may depend on various factors, including but not limited to: the structure of royalty payments, offsetting considerations, if any, and the degree of use of the licensed technology. 
    
  See   Item 1A  ,    Risk Factors  ,  for further discussion of risks related to protecting our intellectual property. 
    
  PRODUCTION AND SUPPLIERS 
    
  The production of our AEC, MFG, PSEB, and certain M E software products and services involves duplication or hosting of software media. As we progress through our business model transition, the way that we deliver software has evolved. For certain cloud-based products, we use a combination of co-located hosting facilities as well as infrastructure-as-a-service providers like Amazon Web Services. For other products, we offer customers an electronic software download option for both initial product fulfillment as well as product updates for maintenance subscribers. Customers who choose electronic fulfillment receive the latest version of the software from our vendor s secure servers. Customers may also obtain our software through media such as DVDs and USB flash drives available from multiple sources. The purchase of media and the transfer of the software programs onto media for distribution to customers are performed by us and by licensed subcontractors. Packaging materials are produced to our specifications by outside sources. Production is performed in leased facilities operated by independent third-party contractors. To date, we have not experienced any material difficulties or delays in the production of our software and documentation. 
    
  EMPLOYEES 
    
  As of   January 31, 2016  , we employed approximately   9,500   people. None of our employees in the United States are represented by a labor union. In certain foreign countries, our employees are represented by work councils. We have never experienced any work stoppages and believe our employee relations are good. Reliance upon employees in other countries entails various risks and changes in these foreign countries, such as government instability or regulation unfavorable to foreign-owned businesses, which could negatively impact our business in the future. In February 2016, we announced a restructuring plan that will result in the termination of approximately 10% of the Company s workforce, or approximately 925 employees, in fiscal 2017. Through the restructuring, we seek to reduce expenses, streamline the organization, and reallocate resources to align more closely with the Company s needs going forward. 

2016 Form 10-K  13 

Table of Contents   

ACQUISITIONS 
    
  Over the past three years, we acquired new technology or supplemented our technology by purchasing businesses or technology related assets focused in specific markets or industries. For the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , we acquired a number of companies and technology related assets, some of which were accounted for as business combinations. The following were key acquisitions for fiscal years   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  : 
                       Date of closing 
       
    Company 
       
    Details 
      November 2015 
      
    netfabb GmbH ("netfabb") 
      
    The acquisition of netfabb GmbH ( netfabb ) provides Autodesk with software solutions that reduce production costs and increase efficiency in 3D printing and additive manufacturing. netfabb was integrated, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk's PSEB reportable segment. 
      June 2014 
      
    Shotgun Software Inc. ("Shotgun") 
      
    The acquisition of Shotgun provides a cloud-based production management solution that enables digital studios to track, schedule, review, and collaborate on projects and images. Shotgun was integrated, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk's M E reportable segment. 
      May 2014 
      
    Within Technologies Limited ("Within ) 
      
    The acquisition of Within will accelerate Autodesk s development of tools and technologies for advanced manufacturing, including 3D printing. Within was integrated into, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk s PSEB reportable segment.   
      February 2014 
      
    Delcam plc ( Delcam ) 
      
     The acquisition of Delcam provides Autodesk a range of design, manufacturing and inspection software that enables automated CADCAM solutions for a variety of industries, ranging from aerospace to toys and sports equipment. Delcam was integrated into, and the related goodwill has been assigned to, Autodesk's MFG reportable segment. 
      November 2013 
      
    Graitec SA ( Graitec ) 
      
    The acquisition of Graitec (including Graitec s Advance Steel and Advance Concrete product lines, and associated employees) enhanced Autodesk s offerings for structural engineering and expanded our portfolio of technology for BIM for structural fabrication and detailing. Graitec was integrated into Autodesk s AEC segment. 

BACKLOG 
    
  We typically ship products shortly after receipt of an order, which is common in the software industry. Our backlog consists of current software license product orders which have not yet shipped. The category of current software license product orders which we have not yet shipped consists of orders from customers with approved credit status for currently available software products. 
    
  Backlog was   $31.4 million   at   January 31, 2016   compared to   $40.4 million   at   January 31, 2015  . The actual amount of backlog at any particular time may not be a meaningful indicator of future business prospects as this amount is impacted by a number of factors not related to future trends or events such as the order fulfillment process, the method of software delivery or the linearity of our business within the fiscal period.  
    
  GLOSSARY OF TERMS 
    
  ARR (Annualized Recurring Revenue)   Represents the annualized value of our average monthly recurring revenue for the preceding three months. The  maintenance  captures ARR relating to traditional maintenance attached to perpetual licenses, including Delcam. The  new model  captures ARR relating to desktop, cloud services, enterprise, and Shotgun product offerings. Recurring revenue acquired with the acquisition of a business may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation. 
    
  ARPS (Annualized Revenue Per Subscription)   Is calculated by dividing our annualized recurring revenue by total subscriptions.  
    
  Billings     Amounts billed to customers during the current fiscal period net of any partner incentives, hedge gains or other discounts.  
    
  BIM (Building Information Modeling)     BIM describes a model-based technology linked with a database of project information, and is the process of generating and managing information throughout the life cycle of a building. BIM is used as a digital representation of the building process to facilitate exchange and interoperability of information in digital formats. 

2016 Form 10-K  14 

     Table of Contents   

Constant currency growth rates     We attempt to represent the changes in the underlying business operations by eliminating fluctuations caused by changes in foreign currency exchange rates as well as eliminating hedge gains or losses recorded within the current and comparative periods. Our constant currency methodology removes all hedging gains and losses from the calculation. 
    
  Flagship     Autodesk flagship products are our core design products. Flagship includes the following products: 3ds Max, AutoCAD, AutoCAD LT, AutoCAD vertical products (such as AutoCAD Architecture and Mechanical), Civil 3D, Inventor products (individual), Map 3D, Maya, and Revit products (individual).  
    
  License and Other revenue     License and other revenue consists of two components: product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes software license revenue from the sale of seat licenses, term-based licenses from our desktop subscription and enterprise offerings, and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed. 
    
  Maintenance     Our maintenance program provides our customers with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue over the term of the agreements, generally between one and three years.  
    
  New and Adjacent     Autodesk new and adjacent products include Autodesk's new product offerings as well as products that are not included in flagship or suites. New and adjacent includes the following services and products: Autodesk Alias Design products, Autodesk 360 products, Autodesk Consulting, Autodesk Simulation, Autodesk Simulation Multiphysics, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk CF Design, Autodesk Constructware, Autodesk Consumer products, Autodesk Creative Finishing products, Delcam products, Autodesk Moldflow products, Autodesk Navisworks, Autodesk Scaleform, Autodesk Vault products, and all other products. 
    
  Product Innovation Platform     Represents a single connected ecosystem advancing the way products are designed, made, and used. The Autodesk Product Innovation Platform enables companies to take advantage of the rapid changes taking place in manufacturing. 
    
  Recurring Revenue     Represents   the revenue for the period from our maintenance, desktop, cloud services and enterprise license offerings, including portions of revenue allocated to license   other revenue for those offerings. It excludes revenue from Autodesk Consulting Services, and subscription revenue related to education offerings, consumer product offerings, select Creative Finishing product offerings, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, and third party products. Recurring revenue acquired with the acquisition of a business is captured and may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation.    
    
  Suites     Autodesk design suites are a combination of products that target a specific user objective (product design, building design, etc.) and support a set of workflows for that objective. Our current design and creation suites include: AutoCAD Design Suite, Autodesk Building Design Suite, Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, Autodesk Factory Design Suite, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite, Autodesk Plant Design Suite, and Autodesk Product Design Suite.  
    
  Subscription revenue     Autodesk subscription revenue consists of three components: (1) maintenance revenue from our software products; (2) maintenance revenue from our term-based desktop subscription and enterprise offerings; and (3) revenue from our cloud service offerings. 
    
  Total Subscriptions   Consists of subscriptions from our maintenance, desktop, cloud service and enterprise license offerings that are active and paid as of the quarter end date. For certain cloud-based and enterprise license offerings, subscriptions represent the monthly average activity reported within the last three months of the quarter end date. Total subscriptions do not include data from education offerings, consumer product offerings, select Creative Finishing product offerings, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, and third party products. Subscriptions acquired with the acquisition of a business are captured once the data conforms to our subscription count methodology and when added, may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation. New model subscriptions consist of desktop, cloud service and enterprise license offerings, and subscriptions from Autodesk Shotgun product offerings. Maintenance subscriptions consist of maintenance subscriptions and subscriptions from Autodesk Delcam product offerings. 

2016 Form 10-K  15 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 1A. 
    RISK FACTORS 
       
  We operate in a rapidly changing environment that involves significant risks, a number of which are beyond our control. In addition to the other information contained in this Form 10-K, the following discussion highlights some of these risks and the possible impact of these factors on our business, financial condition, and future results of operations. If any of the following risks actually occur, our business, financial condition, or results of operations may be adversely impacted, causing the trading price of our common stock to decline. In addition, these risks and uncertainties may impact the  forward-looking  statements described elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in the documents incorporated herein by reference. They could affect our actual results of operations, causing them to differ materially from those expressed in  forward-looking  statements.  
    
  Global economic and political conditions may further impact our business, financial results and financial condition. 
    
  As our business has expanded globally, we have increasingly become subject to risks arising from adverse changes in global economic and political conditions. The past several years were characterized by weak global economic conditions, volatile credit markets, volatile exchange rates, relatively high unemployment, increased government deficit spending and debt levels, uncertainty about certain governments' abilities to repay such debt or to address certain fiscal issues, and volatility in many financial instrument markets. If economic growth in countries where we do business slows, such as in Japan or in emerging economies, or if such countries experience further economic recessions, customers may delay or reduce technology purchases. This could result in reductions in sales of our products and services, longer sales cycles and slower adoption of our technologies. 
    
  Over the past several years, many of our customers have experienced tighter credit, negative financial news and weaker financial performance of their businesses and have reduced their workforces, thereby reducing the number of licenses and the number of maintenance contracts they purchase from us. In addition, a number of our customers rely, directly and indirectly, on government spending. Current debt balances of many countries without proportionate increases in revenues have caused many countries to reduce spending and in some cases have forced those countries to restructure their debt in an effort to avoid defaulting under those obligations. This has not only impacted those countries but others that are holders of such debt and those assisting in such restructuring. 
    
  These actions may impact, and over the past several years have negatively impacted, our business, financial results and financial condition. Moreover, our financial performance may be negatively impacted by: 

lack of credit available to and the insolvency of key channel partners, which may impair our distribution channels and cash flows; 

counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury functions, including timely access to our cash reserves and third-party fulfillment of hedging transactions; 

counterparty failures negatively affecting our insured risks; 

inability of banks to honor our existing line of credit, which could increase our borrowing expenses or eliminate our ability to obtain short-term financing; and 

decreased borrowing and spending by our end users on small and large projects in the industries we serve, thereby reducing demand for our products. 
       
  Uncertainty about current and future economic and political conditions on us, our customers and partners, makes it difficult for us to forecast operating results and to make decisions about future investments. 
    
  Further macro-economic degradation, a slower economic recovery in industries important to our business or adverse exchange rate movements, may adversely affect our business, financial results and financial condition. 
    
  If we fail to successfully manage our business model transition to cloud-based products and more flexible product licenses, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 
    
  To address the industry transition from personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing, we have accelerated our move to the cloud and are offering more flexible product licenses. To support our transition, we discontinued licensing upgrades effective March 6, 2015, discontinued selling new perpetual licenses of most individual software products effective February 1, 2016, and plan to discontinue selling new perpetual licenses of suites effective  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  16 

       Table of Contents   

August 1, 2016.     As a result, we expect to derive an increasing portion of our revenues in the future from subscriptions. This subscription model prices and delivers our products in a way that differs from the historical perpetual pricing and delivery methods. These changes reflect a significant shift from perpetual license sales and distribution of our software in favor of providing our customers the right to access certain of our software in a hosted environment or use downloaded software for a specified subscription period. During our transition, revenue, billings, gross margin, operating margin, net income (loss), earnings (loss) per share, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. 
    
  Our ability to achieve our financial objectives is subject to risks and uncertainties. The new offerings require a considerable investment of technical, financial, legal, and sales resources, and a scalable organization. Market acceptance of such offerings is affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, performance, current license terms, customer preference, social/community engagement, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations. Whether our business model transition will prove successful and will accomplish our business and financial objectives is subject to numerous uncertainties, including but not limited to: customer demand, attach and renewal rates, channel acceptance, our ability to further develop and scale infrastructure, our ability to include functionality and usability in such offerings that address customer requirements, tax and accounting implications, pricing, and our costs. In addition, the metrics we use to gauge the status of our business model transition may evolve over the course of the transition as significant trends emerge. If we are unable to successfully establish these new offerings and navigate our business model transition in light of the foregoing risks and uncertainties, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 
    
  Our strategy to develop and introduce new products and services exposes us to risks such as limited customer acceptance, costs related to product defects, and large expenditures, each of which may not result in additional net revenue or could result in decreased net revenue. 
    
  Rapid technological changes, as well as changes in customer requirements and preferences, characterize the software industry. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing. Customers are also reconsidering the manner in which they license software products, which requires us to constantly evaluate our business model and strategy. In response, we are focused on providing solutions to enable our customers to be more agile and collaborative on their projects. We are also developing consumer products for digital art, personal design and creativity, and home design. We devote significant resources to the development of new technologies. In addition, we frequently introduce new business models or methods that require a considerable investment of technical and financial resources such as our introduction of flexible license and service offerings. It is uncertain whether these strategies will prove successful or whether we will be able to develop the necessary infrastructure and business models more quickly than our competitors. We are making such investments through further development and enhancement of our existing products and services, as well as through acquisitions of new product lines. Such investments may not result in sufficient revenue generation to justify their costs and could result in decreased net revenue. If we are not able to meet customer requirements, either with respect to our software or hardware products or the manner in which we provide such products, or if we are not able to adapt our business model to meet our customers' requirements, our business, financial condition or results of operations may be adversely impacted. 
    
  In particular, a critical component of our growth strategy is to have customers of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products expand their portfolios to include our other offerings and cloud-based services. We want customers using individual Autodesk products to expand their portfolio with our other offerings and cloud-based services, and we are taking steps to accelerate this migration. At times, sales of licenses of our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT or individual Autodesk flagship products have decreased without a corresponding increase in suites product or cloud-based services revenue or without purchases of customer seats to our suites. Should this continue, our results of operations will be adversely affected. Also, adoption of our cloud and mobile computing offerings and changes in the delivery of our software and services to our customers, such as desktop subscription (formally referred to as rental) offerings, will change the way in which we recognize revenue relating to our software and services, with a potential negative impact on our financial performance. The accounting impact of these offerings and other business decisions are expected to result in an increase in the percentage of our ratable revenue, as well as recurring revenue, making for a more predictable business over time, while potentially reducing our upfront perpetual revenue stream. 
    
  Our executive management team must act quickly, continuously, and with vision, given the rapidly changing customer expectations and technology advancements inherent in the software industry, the extensive and complex efforts required to create useful and widely accepted products and the rapid evolution of cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms, and other technologies, such as consumer products. Although we have articulated a strategy that we  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  17 

Table of Contents   

believe will fulfill these challenges, if we fail to execute properly on that strategy or adapt that strategy as market conditions evolve, we may fail to meet our customers' expectations, fail to compete with our competitors' products and technology, and lose the confidence of our channel partners and employees. This in turn could adversely affect our business and financial performance. 
    
  Our entry into 3D printing presents many of the risks described above concerning developing and introducing new products as well as new risks for us. The manufacturing and 3D printing markets are highly competitive and some of our competitors have superior experience and resources to us. We have limited experience designing, developing, and selling hardware products and no experience developing and selling printers. The market for 3D printing is nascent and may not develop as rapidly as we expect. Our sale of 3D printers could subject us to product and other liability that we do not currently face. If any of these risks materialize, it could adversely affect our business and financial performance as well as our reputation and brand. 
    
  Revenue from our offerings may be difficult to predict during our business model transition. 
    
  The discontinuance of our perpetual licenses for most individual software products on February 1, 2016 and for perpetual suites on August 1, 2016 will result in the loss of future up-front licensing revenue. This also will freeze growth of our maintenance subscription revenue because there will be no further opportunities to attach maintenance licensing once we cease the sale of suites licenses. We expect our maintenance subscription revenue to decline over time, but it may decline more quickly than anticipated due to low maintenance renewals. At the same time, our new model subscription revenue may not grow as rapidly as anticipated. Our new model subscription pricing allows customers to use our offerings at a lower initial cost when compared to the sale of a perpetual license. Although our new model subscriptions are designed to increase the number of customers who purchase offerings and create a recurring revenue stream that is more predictable over time, it creates risks related to the timing of revenue recognition and expected reductions in cash flows in the near term. 
    
  We may not be able to predict subscription renewal rates and their impact on our future revenue and operating results.  
    
  Our customers are not obligated to renew their subscriptions for our offerings, and they may elect not to renew. We cannot assure renewal rates, or the mix of subscriptions renewals. Customer renewal rates may decline or fluctuate due to a number of factors, including offering pricing, competitive offerings, customer satisfaction, and reductions in customer spending levels or customer activity due economic downturns or financial markets uncertainty. If our customers do not renew their subscriptions or if they renew on less favorable terms, our revenues may decline. 
    
  Actions that we are taking to restructure our business in alignment with our business model transition strategy may be costly and may not be as effective as anticipated. 
    
  During the first quarter of fiscal 2017, we commenced a company-wide restructuring plan to accelerate the Company s move to the cloud and its transition to a subscription-based business model. Through the restructuring, we seek to reduce expenses, streamline the organization, and reallocate resources to align more closely with the Company s needs going forward. As a result of these actions, we have incurred and will incur additional costs in the short term that have the effect of reducing our operating margins. If we are unable to realize the expected outcomes from the restructuring efforts, our business and operating results may be harmed. 
    
  Our software is highly complex and may contain undetected errors, defects or vulnerabilities, each of which could harm our business and financial performance. 
    
  The software products that we offer are complex, and despite extensive testing and quality control, may contain errors, defects or vulnerabilities. Some errors, defects and vulnerabilities in our software products may only be discovered after the product or service has been released. Any errors, defects or vulnerabilities could result in the need for corrective releases to our software products, damage to our reputation, loss of revenue, an increase in product returns or lack of market acceptance of our products, any of which would likely harm our business and financial performance. 

2016 Form 10-K  18 

       Table of Contents   

We are dependent on international revenue and operations, exposing us to significant regulatory, global economic, intellectual property, collections, currency exchange rate, taxation, political instability and other risks, which could adversely impact our financial results. 
    
  We are dependent on our international operations for a significant portion of our revenue. International net revenue represented   68%   and   71%   of our net revenue in fiscal   2016   and   2015  , respectively. Our international revenue, including that from emerging economies, is subject to general economic and political conditions in foreign markets, including conditions in foreign markets resulting from economic and political conditions in the U.S. Our revenue is also impacted by the relative geographical and country mix of our revenue over time. At times, these factors adversely impact our international revenue, and consequently our business as a whole. Our dependency on international revenue makes us much more exposed to global economic and political trends, which can negatively impact our financial results, even if our results in the U.S. are strong for a particular period. Further, a significant portion of our earnings from our international operations may not be freely transferable to the U.S. due to remittance restrictions, adverse tax consequences or other factors. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S., and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings (such as our 2012 and 2015 Notes), or both. However, if, in the future, amounts held by foreign subsidiaries are needed to fund our operations in the U.S., or to service our external borrowings, the repatriation of such amounts to the U.S. could result in a significant incremental tax liability in the period in which the decision to repatriate occurs and payment of any such tax liability would reduce the cash available to fund our operations. 
    
  We anticipate that our international operations will continue to account for a significant portion of our net revenue, and, as we expand our international development, sales and marketing expertise, will provide significant support to our overall efforts in countries outside of the U.S. Risks inherent in our international operations include: 

economic volatility; 

fluctuating currency exchange rates, including risks related to any hedging activities we undertake; 

unexpected changes in regulatory requirements and practices; 

delays resulting from difficulty in obtaining export licenses for certain technology; 

different purchase patterns as compared to the developed world; 

tariffs, quotas, and other trade barriers and restrictions; 

operating in locations with a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent business practices, particularly in emerging economies; 

increasing enforcement by the U.S. under the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, adoption of stricter anti-corruption laws in certain countries, including the United Kingdom; 

difficulties in staffing and managing foreign sales and development operations; 

local competition; 

longer collection cycles for accounts receivable; 

potential changes in tax laws, including possible U.S. and foreign tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how multinational companies are taxed; 

tax arrangements with foreign governments, including our ability to meet and renew the terms of those tax arrangements; 

laws regarding the management of and access to data and public networks; 

possible future limitations upon foreign owned businesses; 

increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; 
       
  2016 Form 10-K  19 

Table of Contents   

inadequate local infrastructure; 

greater difficulty in protecting intellectual property; 

software piracy; and 

other factors beyond our control, including popular uprisings, terrorism, war, natural disasters, and diseases. 
       
  Some of our business partners also have international operations and are subject to the risks described above. Even if we are able to successfully manage the risks of international operations, our business may be adversely affected if our business partners are not able to successfully manage these risks. 
    
  Existing and increased competition and rapidly evolving technological changes may reduce our revenue and profits. 
    
  The software industry has limited barriers to entry, and the availability of computing devices with continually expanding performance at progressively lower prices contributes to the ease of market entry. The industry is presently undergoing a platform shift from the personal computer to cloud and mobile computing. This shift further lowers barriers to entry and poses a disruptive challenge to established software companies. The markets in which we compete are characterized by vigorous competition, both by entry of competitors with innovative technologies and by consolidation of companies with complementary products and technologies. In addition, some of our competitors in certain markets have greater financial, technical, sales and marketing, and other resources. Furthermore, a reduction in the number and availability of compatible third-party applications, or our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, and new computing platforms, may adversely affect the sale of our products. Because of these and other factors, competitive conditions in the industry are likely to intensify in the future. Increased competition could result in price reductions, reduced net revenue and profit margins and loss of market share, any of which would likely harm our business. 
    
  We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates that could negatively impact our financial results and cash flows. 
    
  Because we conduct a substantial portion of our business outside the U.S. and we make certain business and resource decisions based on assumptions about foreign currency, we face exposure to adverse movements in foreign currency exchange rates. These exposures may change over time as business practices evolve and economic conditions change, and they could have a material adverse impact on our financial results and cash flows. 
    
  We use derivative instruments to manage a portion of our cash flow exposure to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. As part of our risk management strategy, we use foreign currency contracts to manage a portion of our exposures of underlying assets, liabilities, and other obligations, which exist as part of our ongoing business operations. These foreign currency instruments have maturities that extend for one to twelve months in the future, and provide us with some protection against currency exposures. However, our attempts to hedge against these risks may not be completely successful, resulting in an adverse impact on our financial results. 
    
  The fluctuations of currencies in which we conduct business can both increase and decrease our overall revenue and expenses for any given fiscal period. Although our foreign currency cash flow hedge program extends beyond the current quarter in order to reduce our exposure to foreign currency volatility, we do not attempt to completely mitigate this risk, and in any case, will incur transaction fees in adopting such hedging programs. Such volatility, even when it increases our revenues or decreases our expenses, impacts our ability to accurately predict our future results and earnings. 
    
  A breach of security in our products, services or computer systems may compromise the integrity of our products or services, harm our reputation, create additional liability and adversely impact our financial results. 
    
  We make significant efforts to maintain the security and integrity of our source code and computer systems. The risk of a security breach or disruption, particularly through cyber attack or cyber intrusion, including by computer hackers, foreign governments and cyber terrorists, has increased as the number, intensity and sophistication of attempted attacks and intrusions from around the world have increased. These threats include but are not limited to identity theft, unauthorized access, DNS attacks, wireless network attacks, viruses and worms, advanced persistent threat (APT), application centric attacks, peer-to-peer attacks, phishing, backdoor trojans and distributed denial of service (DDoS) attacks. Any of the foregoing could attack our products, services or computer systems. Despite significant efforts to create  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  20 

       Table of Contents   

security barriers to such programs, it is virtually impossible for us to entirely eliminate this risk. Like all software, our software is vulnerable to cyber attacks. In the past, hackers have targeted our software, and they may do so in the future. The impact of cyber attacks could disrupt the proper functioning of our software products or services, cause errors in the output of our customers' work, allow unauthorized access to sensitive, proprietary or confidential information of ours or our customers, and other destructive outcomes. Moreover, as we continue to invest in new lines of consumer products and services we are exposed to increased security risks and the potential for unauthorized access to, or improper use of, the information of our consumer users. If any of the foregoing were to occur, our reputation may suffer, customers may stop buying our products or services, we could face lawsuits and potential liability, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. 
    
  Changes in laws or regulations related to the Internet, local data storage or related to privacy and data security concerns may impact our business or expose us to increased liability. 
    
  The future success of our business depends upon the continued use of the Internet as a primary medium for commerce, communication, and business applications. Federal, state, or foreign government bodies or agencies have in the past adopted, and may in the future adopt, laws or regulations affecting data privacy and the transmission of certain types of content using the Internet. For example, the State of California has adopted legislation requiring operators of commercial websites and mobile applications that collect personal information from California residents to conspicuously post and comply with privacy policies that satisfy certain requirements. Several other U.S. states have adopted legislation requiring companies to protect the security of personal information that they collect from consumers over the Internet, and more states may adopt similar legislation in the future. Additionally, the Federal Trade Commission has used its authority under Section 5 of the Federal Trade Commission Act to bring actions against companies for failing to maintain adequate security for personal information collected from consumers over the Internet and for failing to comply with privacy-related representations made to Internet users. The U.S. Congress has at various times proposed federal legislation intended to protect the privacy of Internet users and the security of personal information collected from Internet users that would impose additional compliance burdens upon companies collecting personal information from Internet users, and the U.S. Congress may adopt such legislation in the future. The European Union also has adopted various directives regulating data privacy and security and the transmission of content using the Internet involving residents of the European Union, including those directives known as the Data Protection Directive, the E-Privacy Directive, and the Privacy and Electronic Communications Directive, and may adopt similar directives in the future. Other countries, including Canada and several Latin American and Asian countries, have constitutional protections for, or have adopted legislation protecting, individuals' personal information. Additionally, some federal, state, or foreign governmental bodies have established laws that seek to censor the transmission of certain types of content over the Internet or require that individuals be provided with the ability to permanently delete all electronic personal information, such as the German Multimedia Law of 1997 and the California  Eraser law  for minors. Additionally, some foreign governmental bodies (such as Russia and China) have established laws or have proposed laws that seek to require local data storage. 
    
  In addition, new laws and industry self-regulatory codes have been enacted and more are being considered that may affect our ability to reach current and prospective customers, to understand how our products and services are being used, to respond to customer requests allowed under the laws, and to implement our new business models effectively. These new laws and regulations would similarly affect our competitors as well as our customers. 
    
  Given the variety of global privacy and data protection regimes, it is possible we may find ourselves subject to inconsistent obligations. For instance, the USA Patriot Act is considered by some to be in conflict with certain directives of the European Union. Situations such as these require that we make prospective determinations regarding compliance with conflicting regulations. Increased enforcement of existing laws and regulations, as well as any laws, regulations or changes that may be adopted or implemented in the future, could limit the growth of the use of public cloud applications or communications generally, result in a decline in the use of the Internet and the viability of Internet-based applications, and require us to implement of additional technological safeguards. 
    
  In addition, in October 2015 the European Court of Justice issued a ruling immediately invalidating the U.S.-EU Safe Harbor Framework, which facilitated personal data transfers to the U.S. in compliance with applicable EU data protection laws. In February of 2016, The European Commission and the United States agreed on a new framework for transatlantic data flows: the EU-US Privacy Shield. Autodesk is currently awaiting additional guidance from European regulators on how the EU-US Privacy Shield will be implemented. We continue to comply with the previous Safe Harbor principles and rely on other legal mechanisms for data transfers.  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  21 

Table of Contents   

Increasing regulatory focus on privacy issues could impact our new business models and expose us to increased liability. 
    
  Governments, privacy advocates and class action attorneys are increasingly scrutinizing how companies collect, process, use, store, share or transmit personal data. Any perception of our practices or products as an invasion of privacy, whether or not consistent with current regulations and industry practices, may subject us to public criticism, class action lawsuits, reputational harm or claims by regulators, industry groups or other third parties, all of which could disrupt our business and expose us to increased liability. 
    
  We rely on third-parties to provide us with a number of operational services, including hosting and delivery and certain of our customer services and other operations and processing of data; any interruption or delay in service from these third parties, breaches of security or privacy could expose us to liability, harm our reputation and adversely impact our financial performance. 
    
  We rely on hosted computer services from third parties for services that we provide our customers and computer operations for our internal use. As we gather customer data and host certain customer data in third-party facilities, a security breach could compromise the integrity or availability or result in the theft of customer data. In addition, our operations could be negatively affected in the event of a security breach, and we could be subject to the loss or theft of confidential or proprietary information, including source code. 
    
  Unauthorized access to this data may be obtained through break-ins, breaches of our secure networks by unauthorized parties, employee theft or misuse, or other misconduct. We rely on a number of third party suppliers in the operation of our business for the provision of various services and materials that we use in the operation of our business and production of our products. We may from time to time rely on a single or limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these services or materials. The inability of such third parties to satisfy our requirements could disrupt our business operations or make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. If any of these situations were to occur, our reputation could be harmed, we could be subject to third party liability, including under data protection and privacy laws in certain jurisdictions, and our financial performance could be negatively impacted. 
    
  If we do not maintain good relationships with the members of our distribution channel, or achieve anticipated levels of sell-through, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. If our distribution channel suffers financial losses, becomes financially unstable or insolvent, or is not provided the right mix of incentives to sell our products, our ability to generate revenue will be adversely affected. 
    
  We sell our software products both directly to end-users and through a network of distributors and resellers. For fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015  , approximately   79%   and   83%   of our revenue was derived from indirect channel sales through distributors and resellers and we expect that the majority of our revenue will continue to be derived from indirect channel sales in the future. Our ability to effectively distribute our products depends in part upon the financial and business condition of our distributor and reseller network. Computer software distributors and resellers typically are not highly capitalized, have previously experienced difficulties during times of economic contraction and experienced difficulties during the past several years. We have processes to ensure that we assess the creditworthiness of distributors and resellers prior to our sales to them. In the past we have taken steps to support them, and may take additional steps in the future, such as extending credit terms and providing temporary discounts. These steps, if taken, could harm our financial results. If our distributors and resellers were to become insolvent, they would not be able to maintain their business and sales, or provide customer support services, which would negatively impact our business and revenue. 
    
  We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including the distributor Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates ( Tech Data ). Tech Data accounted for   25%     of our total net revenue for both fiscal   2016   and   2015  , respectively. Although we believe that we are not substantially dependent on Tech Data, if Tech Data were to experience a significant disruption with its business or if our relationship with Tech Data were to significantly deteriorate, it is possible that our ability to sell to end users would be, at least temporarily, negatively impacted. This could in turn negatively impact our financial results. 
    
  Over time, we have modified and will continue to modify aspects of our relationship with our distributors and resellers, such as their incentive programs, pricing to them and our distribution model to motivate and reward them for aligning their businesses with our strategy and business objectives. Changes in these relationships and underlying programs could negatively impact their business and harm our business. In addition, the loss of or a significant reduction in business with those distributors or resellers or the failure to achieve anticipated levels of sell-through with any one of our major international distributors or large resellers could harm our business. In particular, if one or more of such  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  22 

       Table of Contents   

distributors or resellers were unable to meet their obligations with respect to accounts payable to us, we could be forced to write off such accounts and may be required to delay the recognition of revenue on future sales to these customers. These events could have a material adverse effect on our financial results. 
    
  A significant portion of our revenue is generated through maintenance revenue; decreases in maintenance renewal rates would negatively impact our future revenue and financial results. 
    
  Our maintenance customers have no obligation to attach maintenance to their initial license or renew their maintenance contract after the expiration of their initial maintenance period, which is typically one year. The discontinuance of our perpetual licenses for most individual software products on February 1, 2016 and for perpetual suites on August 1, 2016 will result in the loss of future maintenance attach opportunities and freeze maintenance growth. Once we discontinue new perpetual suites we expect customers' renewal rates will decline or fluctuate over time as a result of a number of factors, including the overall global economy, the health of their businesses, and the perceived value of the maintenance program. If our customers do not renew their maintenance contract for our products, our maintenance revenue will decline and our financial results will suffer. 
    
  We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance contracts, which is predominantly one year, but may also range up to five years. Decreases in maintenance billings will negatively impact future maintenance revenue, however future maintenance revenue will also be impacted by other factors such as the amount, timing and mix of contract terms of future billings. 
    
  Our financial results fluctuate within each quarter and from quarter to quarter making our future revenue and financial results difficult to predict. 
    
  Our quarterly financial results have fluctuated in the past and will continue to do so in the future. These fluctuations could cause our stock price to change significantly or experience declines. We also provide investors with quarterly and annual financial forward-looking guidance that could prove to be inaccurate as a result of these fluctuations. In addition to the other factors described in this Part I, Item 1A, some of the factors that could cause our financial results to fluctuate include: 

general market, economic, business, and political conditions in particular geographies, including Europe, APAC, and emerging economies; 

failure to produce sufficient revenue, billings or subscription growth, and profitability; 

failure to achieve anticipated levels of customer acceptance to our business model transition, including the impact of the end of upgrades and perpetual licenses; 

weak or negative growth in one or more of the industries we serve, including AEC, manufacturing, and digital media and entertainment markets; 

restructuring or other accounting charges and unexpected costs or other operating expenses; 

changes in revenue recognition or other accounting guidelines employed by us and/or established by the Financial Accounting Standards Board or other rule-making bodies; 

fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and the effectiveness of our hedging activity; 

failure to achieve and maintain cost reductions and productivity increases; 

dependence on and the timing of large transactions; 

changes in product mix, pricing pressure or changes in product pricing; 

changes in billings linearity; 

the ability of governments around the world to adopt fiscal policies, meet their financial and debt obligations, and to finance infrastructure projects; 

2016 Form 10-K  23 

Table of Contents   

lower growth or contraction of our maintenance program; 

failure to expand our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT customer base to related design products and services; 

our inability to rapidly adapt to technological and customer preference changes, including those related to cloud computing, mobile devices, new computing platforms, and 3D printing; 

the timing of the introduction of new products by us or our competitors; 

the success of new business or sales initiatives and increasing our portfolio of product suites; 

the financial and business condition of our reseller and distribution channels; 

failure to accurately predict the impact of acquired businesses or to identify and realize the anticipated benefits of acquisitions, and successfully integrate such acquired businesses and technologies; 

perceived or actual technical or other problems with a product or combination of products; 

unexpected or negative outcomes of matters and expenses relating to litigation or regulatory inquiries; 

increases in cloud services-related expenses; 

security breaches and potential financial penalties to customers and government entities; 

timing of additional investments in the development of our platform or deployment of our services; 

timing of product releases and retirements; 

changes in tax laws or regulations, tax arrangements with foreign governments or accounting rules, such as increased use of fair value measures; 

changes in sales compensation practices; 

failure to effectively implement our copyright legalization programs, especially in developing countries; 

failure to achieve sufficient sell-through in our channels for new or existing products; 

renegotiation or termination of royalty or intellectual property arrangements; 

interruptions or terminations in the business of our consultants or third-party developers; 

the timing and degree of expected investments in growth and efficiency opportunities; 

failure to achieve continued success in technology advancements; 

catastrophic events or natural disasters; 

regulatory compliance costs; 

potential goodwill impairment charges related to prior acquisitions; 

failure to appropriately estimate the scope of services under consulting arrangements; and 

adjustments arising from ongoing or future tax examinations. 
       
  We have also experienced fluctuations in financial results in interim periods in certain geographic regions due to seasonality or regional economic or political conditions. In particular, our financial results in Europe during our third quarter are usually affected by a slower summer period, and our Asia Pacific operations typically experience seasonal slowing in our third and fourth quarters. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  24 

       Table of Contents   

Our operating expenses are based in part on our expectations for future revenue and are relatively fixed in the short term. Accordingly, any revenue shortfall below expectations has had, and in the future could have, an immediate and significant adverse effect on our profitability. Greater than anticipated expenses or a failure to maintain rigorous cost controls would also negatively affect profitability. 
    
  Our business could suffer as a result of risks, costs, charges and integration risks associated with strategic acquisitions and investments. 
  We regularly acquire or invest in businesses, software products and technologies that are complementary to our business through acquisitions, strategic alliances or equity or debt investments. The risks associated with such acquisitions include, among others, the difficulty of assimilating products, operations and personnel, inheriting liabilities such as intellectual property infringement claims, the failure to realize anticipated revenue and cost projections, the requirement to test and assimilate the internal control processes of the acquired business in accordance with the requirements of Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, and the diversion of management's time and attention. For example, we face risks relating to our fiscal 2017 integration of our Delcam subsidiaries, which previously operated autonomously. 
  In addition, such acquisitions and investments involve other risks such as: 

the inability to retain customers, key employees, vendors, distributors, business partners, and other entities associated with the acquired business; 

the potential that due diligence of the acquired business or product does not identify significant problems; 

exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to, claims from terminated employees, customers, or other third parties; 

the potential for incompatible business cultures; 

significant higher than anticipated transaction or integration-related costs; 

potential additional exposure to fluctuations in currency exchange rates; and 

the potential impact on relationships with existing customers, vendors, and distributors as business partners as a result of acquiring another business. 
       
  We may not be successful in overcoming such risks, and such acquisitions and investments may negatively impact our business. In addition, such acquisitions and investments have in the past and may in the future contribute to potential fluctuations in our quarterly financial results. These fluctuations could arise from transaction-related costs and charges associated with eliminating redundant expenses or write-offs of impaired assets recorded in connection with acquisitions and investments. These costs or charges could negatively impact our financial results for a given period, cause quarter to quarter variability in our financial results or negatively impact our financial results for several future periods. 
    
  Because we derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from a small number of products, including our AutoCAD-based software products and suites, if these products are not successful, our revenue will be adversely affected. 
    
  We derive a substantial portion of our net revenue from sales of licenses of a limited number of our products, including AutoCAD software, products based on AutoCAD, which include our suites that serve specific markets and products that are interoperable with AutoCAD. Any factor adversely affecting sales of these products, including the product release cycle, market acceptance, product competition, performance and reliability, reputation, price competition, economic and market conditions and the availability of third-party applications, would likely harm our financial results. During fiscal   2016   and   2015  , combined revenue from our AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT products, not including suites having AutoCAD or AutoCAD LT as a component, represented   24%     and   28%     of our total net revenue, respectively. 

2016 Form 10-K  25 

Table of Contents   

If we are not able to adequately protect our proprietary rights, our business could be harmed. 
    
  We rely on a combination of patent, copyright and trademark laws, trade secret protections, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our proprietary rights. Despite such efforts to protect our proprietary rights, unauthorized parties from time to time have copied aspects of our software products or have obtained and used information that we regard as proprietary. Policing unauthorized use of our software products is time-consuming and costly. We are unable to measure the extent to which piracy of our software products exists and we expect that software piracy will remain a persistent problem, particularly in emerging economies. Furthermore, our means of protecting our proprietary rights may not be adequate. 
    
  Additionally, we actively protect the secrecy of our confidential information and trade secrets, including our source code. If unauthorized disclosure of our source code occurs, we could potentially lose future trade secret protection for that source code. The loss of future trade secret protection could make it easier for third-parties to compete with our products by copying functionality, which could adversely affect our financial performance and our reputation. We also seek to protect our confidential information and trade secrets through the use of non-disclosure agreements with our customers, contractors, vendors and partners. However, it is possible that our confidential information and trade secrets may be disclosed or published without our authorization. If this were to occur, it may be difficult and/or costly for us to enforce our rights, and our financial performance and reputation could be negatively impacted. 
    
  We may face intellectual property infringement claims that could be costly to defend and result in the loss of significant rights. 
    
  As more software patents are granted worldwide, the number of products and competitors in our industry segments grows and the functionality of products in different industry segments overlaps, we expect that software product developers will be increasingly subject to infringement claims. Infringement or misappropriation claims have in the past been, and may in the future be, asserted against us, and any such assertions could harm our business. Additionally, certain patent holders without products have become more aggressive in threatening and pursuing litigation in attempts to obtain fees for licensing the right to use patents. Any such claims or threats, whether with or without merit, have been and could in the future be time-consuming to defend, result in costly litigation and diversion of resources, cause product shipment delays or require us to enter into royalty or licensing agreements. In addition, such royalty or license agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms, if at all, which would likely harm our business. 
    
  From time to time we realign or introduce new business and sales initiatives; if we fail to successfully execute and manage these initiatives, our results of operations could be negatively impacted. 
    
  As part of our effort to accommodate our customers' needs and demands and the rapid evolution of technology, we from time to time evolve our business and sales initiatives such as realigning our development and marketing organizations, and expanding our portfolio of suites and our offering of software as a service, and realigning our internal resources in an effort to improve efficiency. We may take such actions without clear indications that they will prove successful, and at times, we have been met with short-term challenges in the execution of such initiatives. Market acceptance of any new business or sales initiative is dependent on our ability to match our customers' needs at the right time and price. Often we have limited prior experience and operating history in these new areas of emphasis. If any of our assumptions about expenses, revenue or revenue recognition principles from these initiatives proves incorrect, or our attempts to improve efficiency are not successful, our actual results may vary materially from those anticipated, and our financial results will be negatively impacted. 
    
  If we fail to remediate the material weakness identified in our internal control over financial reporting under Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 or are unable to implement and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting in the future, the accuracy and timeliness of our financial and operating reporting may be adversely affected and could result in a loss of investor confidence in our financial reports and have an adverse effect on our stock price. 
    
  In connection with the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2015, our management concluded that a material weakness exists in our internal control over financial reporting related to our controls over the technical review of our reconciliation of our deferred tax accounts and the effective tax rate. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  

2016 Form 10-K  26 

       Table of Contents   

Management initiated remediation plans including the following: 
             
    enhancing our technical accounting review for complex income tax considerations; 

enhancing our income tax controls to include specific activities to ensure proper classification of deferred taxes;  

supplementing our accounting and tax professionals with the engagement of an internationally recognized accounting firm to assist us in the technical review regarding the application of tax rules around deferred tax assets and liabilities; and  

assessed   an  d reorganized the structure of our tax function to enhance the level of documentation, technical oversight and review 
       
  There can be no assurance that our remedial measures will be sufficient to address the material weakness or that our internal control over financial reporting will not be subject to additional material weaknesses in the future. If the remedial measures that we take are insufficient to address our material weakness or if additional material weaknesses or significant deficiencies in our internal control are discovered or occur in the future, our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements may contain material misstatements, and we could be required to restate our financial results. Additionally, we may encounter problems or delays in implementing any changes necessary for management to make a favorable assessment of our internal control over financial reporting. If we cannot favorably assess the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, investors could lose confidence in our financial reports and the price of our common stock could decline. 
    
  Net revenue, billings, earnings or subscriptions shortfalls or the volatility of the market generally may cause the market price of our stock to decline. 
    
  The market price for our common stock has experienced significant fluctuations and may continue to fluctuate significantly. The market price for our common stock may be affected by a number of factors, including the other factors described in this   Part I  ,   Item 1A   and the following: 

shortfalls in our expected financial results, including net revenue, billings, earnings, subscriptions, or other key performance metrics; 

results and future projections related to our business model transition, including the impact of the end of upgrades and perpetual licenses; 

quarterly variations in our or our competitors' results of operations; 

general socio-economic, political or market conditions; 

changes in estimates of future results or recommendations or confusion on the part of analysts and investors about the short-term and long-term impact to our business resulting from our business model transition; 

uncertainty about certain governments' abilities to repay debt or effect fiscal policy; 

the announcement of new products or product enhancements by us or our competitors; 

unusual events such as significant acquisitions, divestitures, regulatory actions, and litigation; 

changes in laws, rules, or regulations applicable to our business; 

outstanding debt service obligations; and 

other factors, including factors unrelated to our operating performance, such as instability affecting the economy or the operating performance of our competitors. 

2016 Form 10-K  27 

Table of Contents   

Significant changes in the price of our common stock could expose us to costly and time-consuming litigation. Historically, after periods of volatility in the market price of a company's securities, a company becomes more susceptible to securities class action litigation. This type of litigation is often expensive and diverts management's attention and resources. 
    
  Our business could be adversely affected if we are unable to attract and retain key personnel. 
    
  Our success and ability to invest and grow depend largely on our ability to attract and retain highly skilled technical, professional, managerial, sales, and marketing personnel. Historically, competition for these key personnel has been intense. The loss of services of any of our key personnel (including key personnel joining our company through acquisitions), the inability to retain and attract qualified personnel in the future, or delays in hiring required personnel, particularly engineering and sales personnel, could make it difficult to meet key objectives, such as timely and effective product introductions and financial goals. 
    
  Our investment portfolio consists of a variety of investment vehicles in a number of countries that are subject to interest rate trends, market volatility, and other economic factors. If general economic conditions decline, this could cause the credit ratings of our investments to deteriorate, illiquidity in the financial marketplace, and we may experience a decline in interest income, and an inability to sell our investments, leading to impairment in the value of our investments. 
    
  It is our policy to invest our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities in highly liquid instruments with, and in the custody of, financial institutions with high credit ratings and to limit the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security and issuer. However, we are subject to general economic conditions, interest rate trends and volatility in the financial marketplace that can affect the income that we receive from our investments, the net realizable value of our investments (including our cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities) and our ability to sell them. In the U.S., for example, the yields on our portfolio securities are very low due to general economic conditions. Any one of these factors could reduce our investment income, or result in material charges, which in turn could impact our overall net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share. 
    
  From time to time we make direct investments in privately held companies. Privately held company investments are considered inherently risky. The technologies and products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, which could result in a loss of all or a substantial part of our initial investment in these companies. The evaluation of privately held companies is based on information that we request from these companies, which is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and accuracy of the data received from these companies. 
    
  A loss on any of our investments may cause us to record an other-than-temporary impairment charge. The effect of this charge could impact our overall net income (loss) and earnings (loss) per share. In any of these scenarios, our liquidity may be negatively impacted, which in turn may prohibit us from making investments in our business, taking advantage of opportunities and potentially meeting our financial obligations as they come due. 
    
  We are subject to legal proceedings and regulatory inquiries, and we may be named in additional legal proceedings or become involved in regulatory inquiries in the future, all of which are costly, distracting to our core business and could result in an unfavorable outcome, or a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows or the trading prices for our securities. 
    
  We are involved in legal proceedings and receive inquiries from regulatory agencies. As the global economy has changed and our business has evolved, we have seen an increase in litigation activity and regulatory inquiries. Like many other high technology companies, the number and frequency of inquiries from U.S. and foreign regulatory agencies we have received regarding our business and our business practices, and the business practices of others in our industry, have increased in recent years. In the event that we are involved in significant disputes or are the subject of a formal action by a regulatory agency, we could be exposed to costly and time consuming legal proceedings that could result in any number of outcomes. Any claims or regulatory actions initiated by or against us, whether successful or not, could result in expensive costs of defense, costly damage awards, injunctive relief, increased costs of business, fines or orders to change certain business practices, significant dedication of management time, diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. In any of these cases, our financial results, results of operations, cash flows or the trading prices for our securities could be negatively impacted. 

2016 Form 10-K  28 

       Table of Contents   

Changes in existing financial accounting standards or practices, or taxation rules or practices may adversely affect our results of operations. 
    
  Changes in existing accounting or taxation rules or practices, new accounting pronouncements or taxation rules, or varying interpretations of current accounting pronouncements or taxation practice could have a significant adverse effect on our results of operations or the manner in which we conduct our business. Further, such changes could potentially affect our reporting of transactions completed before such changes are effective. 
    
  For example, the U.S.-based Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) is currently working together with the International Accounting Standards Board ( IASB ) on several projects to further align accounting principles and facilitate more comparable financial reporting between companies who are required to follow U.S. Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) under SEC regulations and those who are required to follow International Financial Reporting Standards ("IFRS") outside of the U.S. These efforts by the FASB and IASB may result in different accounting principles under GAAP that may result in materially different financial results for us in areas including, but not limited to principles for recognizing revenue and lease accounting. 
    
  It is not clear if or when these potential changes in accounting principles may become effective, whether we have the proper systems and controls in place to accommodate such changes and the impact that any such changes may have on our consolidated financial position, results of operations and cash flows. In addition, as we evolve and change our business and sales models, we are currently unable to determine how these potential changes may impact our new models, particularly in the area of revenue recognition. 
    
  We are investing in resources to update and improve our information technology systems. Should our investments not succeed, or if delays or other issues with new or existing internal technology systems disrupt our operations, our business model transition could be compromised and our business could be harmed. 
    
  We rely on our network and data center infrastructure, technology systems and our websites for our development, marketing, operational, support, sales, accounting and financial reporting activities. We continually invest resources to update and improve these systems and environments in order to meet the growing and evolving requirements of our business and customers. In particular, our transition to cloud-based products and a subscription only business model requires considerable investment in the development of technologies, and back office systems for technical, financial, compliance and sales resources to enable a scalable organization. 
  Such improvements are often complex, costly and time consuming. In addition, such improvements can be challenging to integrate with our existing technology systems, or uncover problems with our existing technology systems. Unsuccessful implementation of hardware or software updates and improvements could result in disruption in our business operations, loss of revenue, errors in our accounting and financial reporting or damage to our reputation and compromise our business model transition. 
  In preparing our financial statements we make certain assumptions, judgments and estimates that affect amounts reported in our consolidated financial statements, which, if not accurate, may significantly impact our financial results. 
    
  We make assumptions, judgments and estimates for a number of items, including the fair value of financial instruments, goodwill, long-lived assets and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets and the fair value of stock awards. We also make assumptions, judgments and estimates in determining the accruals for employee related liabilities including commissions, bonuses, and sabbaticals; and in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, partner incentive programs, product returns reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts, asset retirement obligations and legal contingencies. These assumptions, judgments and estimates are drawn from historical experience and various other factors that we believe are reasonable under the circumstances as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. Actual results could differ materially from our estimates, and such differences could significantly impact our financial results. 
    
  Our financial results could be negatively impacted if our tax positions are overturned by tax authorities. 
    
  We are a U.S.-based multinational company subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. Our effective tax rate is primarily based on our expected geographic mix of earnings, statutory rates, intercompany transfer pricing, and enacted tax rules. Significant judgment is required in determining our effective tax rate and in evaluating our tax positions on a worldwide basis. We believe our tax positions, including intercompany transfer pricing policies, are  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  29 

Table of Contents   

consistent with the tax laws in the jurisdictions in which we conduct our business. It is possible that these positions may be overturned by jurisdictional tax authorities and may have a significant impact on our effective tax rate. 
    
  We rely on third party technologies and if we are unable to use or integrate these technologies, our product and service development may be delayed and our financial results negatively impacted. 
    
  We rely on certain software that we license from third parties, including software that is integrated with internally developed software and used in our products to perform key functions. These third-party software licenses may not continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, and the software may not be appropriately supported, maintained or enhanced by the licensors. The loss of licenses to, or inability to support, maintain and enhance any such software could result in increased costs, or in delays or reductions in product shipments until equivalent software can be developed, identified, licensed and integrated, which would likely harm our business. 
    
  Disruptions with licensing relationships and third party developers could adversely impact our business. 
    
  We license certain key technologies from third parties. Licenses may be restricted in the term or the use of such technology in ways that negatively affect our business. Similarly, we may not be able to obtain or renew license agreements for key technology on favorable terms, if at all, and any failure to do so could harm our business. 
    
  Our business strategy has historically depended in part on our relationships with third-party developers who provide products that expand the functionality of our design software. Some developers may elect to support other products or may experience disruption in product development and delivery cycles or financial pressure during periods of economic downturn. In particular markets, such disruptions have in the past, and would likely in the future, negatively impact these third-party developers and end users, which could harm our business. 
    
  Additionally, technology created by outsourced product development, whether outsourced to third parties or developed externally and transferred to us through business or technology acquisitions, have certain additional risks such as effective integration into existing products, adequate transfer of technology know-how and ownership and protection of transferred intellectual property. 
    
  As a result of our strategy of partnering with other companies for product development, our product delivery schedules could be adversely affected if we experience difficulties with our product development partners. 
    
  We partner with certain independent firms and contractors to perform some of our product development activities. We believe our partnering strategy allows us to, among other things, achieve efficiencies in developing new products and maintaining and enhancing existing product offerings. Our partnering strategy creates a dependency on such independent developers. Independent developers, including those who currently develop products for us in the U.S. and throughout the world, may not be able or willing to provide development support to us in the future. In addition, use of development resources through consulting relationships, particularly in non-U.S. jurisdictions with developing legal systems, may be adversely impacted by, and expose us to risks relating to, evolving employment, export and intellectual property laws. These risks could, among other things, expose our intellectual property to misappropriation and result in disruptions to product delivery schedules. 
    
  Our business may be significantly disrupted upon the occurrence of a catastrophic event. 
    
  Our business is highly automated and relies extensively on the availability of our network and data center infrastructure, our internal technology systems and our websites. We also rely on hosted computer services from third parties for services that we provide to our customers and computer operations for our internal use. The failure of our systems or hosted computer services due to a catastrophic event, such as an earthquake, fire, flood, tsunami, weather event, telecommunications failure, power failure, cyber attack or war, could adversely impact our business, financial results and financial condition. We have developed disaster recovery plans and maintain backup systems in order to reduce the potential impact of a catastrophic event, however there can be no assurance that these plans and systems would enable us to return to normal business operations. In addition, any such event could negatively impact a country or region in which we sell our products. This could in turn decrease that country's or region's demand for our products, thereby negatively impacting our financial results. 

2016 Form 10-K  30 

       Table of Contents   

If we were required to record an impairment charge related to the value of our long-lived assets, or an additional valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets, our results of operations would be adversely affected. 
    
  Our long-lived assets are tested for impairment if indicators of impairment exist. If impairment testing shows that the carrying value of our long-lived assets exceeds their estimated fair values, we would be required to record a non-cash impairment charge, which would decrease the carrying value of our long-lived assets, as the case may be, and our results of operations would be adversely affected. Our deferred tax assets include net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards that can be used to offset taxable income and reduce income taxes payable in future periods. Each quarter, we assess the need for a valuation allowance, considering both positive and negative evidence to determine whether all or a portion of the deferred tax assets are not more likely than not to be realized and determined during our second quarter of fiscal 2016 that our U.S. deferred tax assets were no longer more likely than not to be realized. Changes in the amount of the valuation allowance could result in a material noncash expense or benefit in the period in which the valuation allowance is adjusted and our results of operations could be materially affected. We will continue to perform these tests and any future adjustments may have a material effect on our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  We issued $  1.5 billion   aggregate principal amount of unsecured notes in debt offerings and have an existing $  400.0 million   revolving credit facility, and expect to incur other debt in the future, which may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results. 
    
  In December 2012, we issued 1.95% notes due December 15, 2017 in an aggregate principal amount of $  400.0 million   and 3.6% notes due December 15, 2022 in an aggregate principal amount of $  350.0 million  . In June 2015, we issued 3.125% notes due June 15, 2020 in an aggregate principal amount of $  450.0 million   and 4.375% notes due June 15, 2025 in an aggregate principal amount of $  300.0 million  . As the debt matures, we will have to expend significant resources to either repay or refinance these notes. If we decide to refinance the notes, we may be required to do so on different or less favorable terms or we may be unable to refinance the notes at all, both of which may adversely affect our financial condition. 
    
  We also have a $  400.0 million   revolving credit facility. As of   January 31, 2016  , we had no outstanding borrowings on the line of credit. Although we have no current plans to borrow under this credit facility, we may use the proceeds of any future borrowing for general corporate purposes, or for future acquisitions or expansion of our business. Our existing and future levels of indebtedness may adversely affect our financial condition and future financial results by, among other things: 

increasing our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic, industry and competitive conditions; 

requiring the dedication of a greater than expected portion of our expected cash from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of expected cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; and 

limiting our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry. 
       
  We are required to comply with the covenants set forth in our unsecured notes and revolving credit facility. Our ability to comply with these covenants may be affected by events beyond our control. If we breach any of the covenants and do not obtain a waiver from the note holders or lenders, then, subject to applicable cure periods, any outstanding indebtedness may be declared immediately due and payable. In addition, changes by any rating agency to our credit rating may negatively impact the value and liquidity of our securities. Under certain circumstances, if our credit ratings are downgraded or other negative action is taken, the interest rate payable by us under our revolving credit facility could increase. Downgrades in our credit ratings could also restrict our ability to obtain additional financing in the future and could affect the terms of any such financing. 
    
             ITEM 1B. 
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
       
  None 

2016 Form 10-K  31 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 2. 
    PROPERTIES 
       
  We lease   2,043,000   square feet of office space in   143   locations in the United States and internationally through our foreign subsidiaries. In addition, we own   107,000   square feet of office space in   six   locations internationally through our foreign subsidiaries. Our executive offices and corporate headquarters are located in leased office space in San Rafael, California. Our San Rafael facilities consist of   220,000   square feet under leases that have expiration dates ranging from   December 2017 to December 2019  . We and our foreign subsidiaries lease additional space in various locations throughout the world for local sales, product development, and technical support personnel. In February 2016, we announced a restructuring plan that will result in the consolidation of certain leased facilities.  
    
  All facilities are in good condition. Our facilities, excluding those in restructuring, are operating at capacities averaging   82%   occupancy worldwide as of   January 31, 2016  . We believe that our existing facilities and offices are adequate to meet our requirements for the foreseeable future. See Note   8  ,    Commitments and Contingencies  ,  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for more information about our lease commitments. 
    
             ITEM 3. 
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
       
  We are involved in a variety of claims, suits, investigations, and proceedings in the normal course of business activities including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights, commercial, employment, piracy prosecution, business practices, and other matters. In our opinion, resolution of pending matters is not expected to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows, or financial position. Given the unpredictable nature of legal proceedings, there is a reasonable possibility that an unfavorable resolution of one or more such proceedings could in the future materially affect our results of operations, cash flows, or financial position in a particular period, however, based on the information known by us as of the date of this filing and the rules and regulations applicable to the preparation of our financial statements, any such amount is either immaterial or it is not possible to provide an estimated amount of any such potential loss.  
    
             ITEM 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
       
  Not applicable. 

2016 Form 10-K  32 

       Table of Contents   

PART II 
    
             ITEM 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
       
  Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADSK. The following table lists the intraday high and low sales prices for each quarter in the last two fiscal years. 

Dividends 
    
  We did not declare any cash or stock dividends in either fiscal   2016   or fiscal   2015  . We anticipate that, for the foreseeable future, we will not pay any cash or stock dividends. 
    
  Stockholders 
    
  As of   January 31, 2016  , the number of common stockholders of record was   458  . Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers or other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of stockholders represented by the record holders. 
    
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    
  Autodesk's stock repurchase program is largely to help offset the dilution from the issuance of stock under our employee stock plans and for such other purposes as may be in the interests of Autodesk and its stockholders, and has the effect of returning excess cash generated from our business to stockholders.   The number of shares acquired and the timing of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market and economic conditions, the number of employee stock option exercises and restricted stock unit issuances, the trading price of Autodesk common stock, cash on hand and available in the United States, cash requirements for acquisitions, and Company defined trading windows.  During the three and twelve months ended   January 31, 2016  , we repurchased   1.6 million   and   8.5 million   shares, respectively, of our common stock. At   January 31, 2016  ,   6.3 million   shares remained available for repurchase under the repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors. This program does not have a fixed expiration date. See Note   9  ,    Stockholders' Equity  ,  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 

2016 Form 10-K  33 

Table of Contents   

The following table provides information about the repurchase of common stock in open-market transactions during the quarter ended   January 31, 2016  : 

____________________  
           (1) 
    Represents shares purchased in open-market transactions under the stock repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors. 
              (2) 
    These amounts correspond to the plan approved by the Board of Directors in June 2012 that authorizes the repurchase of   30.0 million   shares. The plan does not have a fixed expiration date. 
       
  Sales of Unregistered Securities 
    
  There were no sales of unregistered securities during the three months ended   January 31, 2016  . 

2016 Form 10-K  34 

     Table of Contents   

Company Stock Performance 
    
  The following graph shows a five-year comparison of cumulative total return (equal to dividends plus stock appreciation) for our Common Stock, the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Software Index. The following graph and related information will not be deemed to be  soliciting material  or to be  filed  with the SEC, nor will such information be incorporated by reference into any filing pursuant to the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into such filing. 
    
  Comparison of Five Year Cumulative Total Stockholder Return (1) 
  
  ___________________  
           (1) 
    Assumes $100 invested on January 31, 2011, in Autodesk s stock, the Standard   Poor s 500 Stock Index, and the Dow Jones U.S. Software Index, with reinvestment of all dividends. Total stockholder returns for prior periods are not an indication of future investment returns. 

2016 Form 10-K  35 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 6. 
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
       
  The following selected consolidated financial data is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and should be read in conjunction with   Item 7  ,    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  ,  and the consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto included in   Item 8   of this Form 10-K to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below. The financial data for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016   and   2015   are derived from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements that are included in this Form 10-K. The Consolidated Statement of Operations and the Consolidated Statement of Cash Flows data for the year ended January 31,   2014   are derived from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements that are included in this Form 10-K. The Consolidated Balance Sheet data for the fiscal year ended January 31,   2014   and the remaining financial data for the fiscal years ended January 31,   2013   and   2012   are derived from audited, consolidated financial statements which are not included in this Form 10-K. 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, Autodesk elected to retrospectively adopt ASU 2015-03, regarding Subtopic 835-30  Interest - Imputation of Interest". The adoption resulted in the reclassification of debt issuance costs from other assets to a reduction of long term notes payable, net for the prior periods presented. 

2016 Form 10-K  36 

       Table of Contents   

ITEM 7. 
    MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
       
  The discussion in our MD A and elsewhere in this Form 10-K contains trend analyses and other forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933 and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Forward-looking statements are any statements that look to future events and consist of, among other things, our business strategies, including those discussed in  Strategy  and  Overview of Fiscal 2015  and  Business Outlook  below, anticipated future net revenue, future GAAP and non-GAAP net (loss) income per share, operating margin, operating expenses, billings, annualized recurring revenue, annualized revenue per subscription, other future financial results (by product type and geography) and subscriptions, the effectiveness of our efforts to successfully manage transitions to new business models and markets, our expectations regarding the continued transition of our business model, our ability to increase our subscription base, expected market trends, including the growth of cloud, mobile, and social computing, the effect of unemployment and availability of credit, our expectations for our restructuring, the effects of mixed global economic conditions, the effects of revenue recognition, our backlog, expected trends in certain financial metrics, including expenses, the impact of acquisitions and investment activities, expectations regarding our cash needs, the effects of fluctuations in exchange rates and our hedging activities on our financial results, our ability to successfully expand adoption of our products, our ability to gain market acceptance of new businesses and sales initiatives, our ability to successfully increase sales of product suites as part of our overall sales strategy, the impact of economic volatility and geopolitical activities in certain countries, particularly emerging economy countries, and the effects of potential non-cash charges on our financial results and the resulting effect on our financial results. In addition, forward-looking statements also consist of statements involving expectations regarding product capability and acceptance, continuation of our stock repurchase program, remediations to our controls environment, statements regarding our liquidity and short-term and long-term cash requirements, as well as statements involving trend analyses and statements including such words as  may,   believe,   could,   anticipate,   would,   might,   plan,   expect,  and similar expressions or the negative of these terms or other comparable terminology. These forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are subject to business and economic risks. As such, our actual results could differ materially from those set forth in the forward-looking statements as a result of the factors set forth above in   Item 1A  ,    Risk Factors  ,  and in our other reports filed with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission. We assume no obligation to update the forward-looking statements to reflect events that occur or circumstances that exist after the date on which they were made, except as required by law. 
    
  Strategy 
    
  Autodesk s vision is to help people imagine, design, and create a better world. We do this by developing software and services for the world s designers, architects, engineers, digital artists, professionals, and non-professionals alike the people who imagine, design, and create the world's products, buildings, infrastructure, films, and games. Autodesk serves professional customers in three primary markets: architecture, engineering, and construction; manufacturing; and digital media and entertainment. 
    
  Our goal is to provide our customers with the world s most innovative, and engaging design software and services. Our product and services portfolio allows our customers to digitally visualize, simulate, and analyze their projects, helping them to better understand the consequences of their design decisions; save time, money, and resources; and become more innovative. 
    
  Autodesk was founded during the platform transition from mainframes and engineering workstations to personal computers. We developed and sustained a compelling value proposition based upon desktop software for the personal computer. Just as the transition from mainframes to personal computers transformed the industry over 30 years ago, we believe our industry is undergoing a similar transition from the personal computer to cloud, mobile, and social computing. To address this transition we have accelerated our move to the cloud and mobile devices and are offering more flexible licensing. For example, Autodesk BIM 360, PLM 360, Fusion 360, and AutoCAD360 Pro, some of our cloud based offerings, provide tools, including mobile and social capabilities, to help streamline design, collaboration, and data management processes. We believe that customer adoption of these new offerings will continue to grow as customers across a range of industries begin to take advantage of the scalable computing power and flexibility provided through these new services. 
    
  Our strategy is to lead the industries we serve to cloud based technologies and business models. This entails both a technological shift and a business model shift. We now have term-based license offerings, including desktop subscriptions, for certain products and flexible enterprise offerings. These offerings are designed to give our customers even more flexibility with how they use our products and service offerings and to address new types of customers such as project-based users and small businesses. As part of this transition, we discontinued licensing upgrades effective March 6, 2015, discontinued selling new  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  37 

Table of Contents   

perpetual licenses of most individual software products effective February 1, 2016, and plan to discontinue selling new perpetual licenses of suites effective August 1, 2016. 
    
  With the discontinuation of the sale of most perpetual licenses, we are accelerating our transition away from selling a hybrid of perpetual licenses and term-based offerings toward a single subscription model. During the transition, billings, revenue, gross margin, operating margin, earnings (loss) per share, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. 
    
  As we progress through the business model transition, billings and reported revenue will become less relevant to measure the success of the business as perpetual license sales are discontinued in favor of subscription offerings, which have considerably lower up-front prices. Annualized recurring revenue ("ARR") and subscription additions will better reflect business momentum and provide additional transparency into the transition. To further analyze progress, we will also disaggregate our growth in these metrics between the original maintenance subscription model ("maintenance") and the new desktop, cloud and mobile, and enterprise flexible license agreements ("new model"). We expect maintenance subscriptions to peak as perpetual license sales end this year, and we expect them to decline slowly over time.  
    
  Another key element of our strategy is increasing our global penetration. Emerging economies, such as Brazil, Russia, India, and China, represent a construction and manufacturing opportunity. Emerging economies face many of the challenges that our design technology can help address, including infrastructure build-out and innovative design and manufacturing. However, conducting business in these countries presents significant challenges, including economic volatility, geopolitical risk, local competition, limited intellectual property protection, poorly developed business infrastructure, scarcity of talent, software piracy, and different purchase patterns as compared to the developed world. We believe that our move to the new model increases the number of potential markets for Autodesk. By connecting all of the participants in the process of designing and making things, we can sell new offerings into the construction and manufacturing spaces. In fiscal   2016  , revenue from emerging economies   decreased     4%   as compared to fiscal   2015   and represented   15%   of our total net revenue for both fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015  , respectively.  
    
  Today, complex challenges such as globalization, urbanization, and sustainable design are driving our customers to new levels of performance and competitiveness, and we are committed to helping them address those challenges and take advantage of new opportunities. To achieve these goals, we are capitalizing on two of our strongest competitive advantages: our ability to bring advanced technology to mainstream markets, and the breadth and depth of our product portfolio. 
    
  We bring powerful new design capabilities to volume markets. Our products are designed to be easy-to-learn and use, and to provide customers with a low cost of deployment, a low total cost of access to our software offerings, and a rapid return on investment. In addition, our software architecture allows for extensibility and integration with other products. The breadth of our technology and product line gives us a unique competitive advantage because it allows our customers to address a wide variety of problems in ways that transcend industry and disciplinary boundaries. This is particularly important in helping our customers address the complex challenges mentioned above. We also believe that our technological leadership and global brand recognition have positioned us well for long-term growth and industry leadership. 
    
  In addition to the competitive advantages afforded by our technology, our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, educators, and students is a key competitive advantage. This network of partners and relationships provides us with a broad and deep reach into volume markets around the world. Our distributor and reseller network is extensive and provides our customers with the resources to purchase, deploy, learn, and support our products quickly and easily. We have a significant number of registered third-party developers who create products that work well with our products and extend them for a variety of specialized applications. 
    
  Autodesk is committed to helping fuel a lifelong passion for design in students of all ages. We offer free educational licenses of Autodesk software worldwide to students, educators, and educational institutions. In fiscal 2016, we initiated Project Ignite, a free and open learning platform delivering a unique package of technology, learning content, and services created specifically for the classroom. The Project Ignite learning platform additionally offers classroom bundles, which include hardware such as 3D printers and electronics kits along with professional development and training services to help educators.  Through Autodesk Design Academy, we provide secondary and postsecondary school markets hundreds of standards-aligned class projects to support design-based disciplines in Science, Technology, Engineering, Digital Arts, and Math (STEAM) while using Autodesk's professional-grade 3D design, engineering and entertainment software used in industry. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we have also made Autodesk Design Academy curricula available on iTunes U. Our intention is to make Autodesk software ubiquitous and the design software of choice for those poised to become the next generation of professional users. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  38 

       Table of Contents   

Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and may, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available.  
    
  Our strategy depends upon a number of assumptions to successfully make the transition toward new cloud and mobile platforms, including the related technology and business model shifts; making our technology available to mainstream markets; leveraging our large global network of distributors, resellers, third-party developers, customers, educational institutions, and students; improving the performance and functionality of our products; and adequately protecting our intellectual property. If the outcome of any of these assumptions differs from our expectations, we may not be able to implement our strategy, which could potentially adversely affect our business. For further discussion regarding these and related risks see   Part I  ,   Item 1A  ,    Risk Factors  .  
    
    Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
    
  Our Consolidated Financial Statements are prepared in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. In preparing our Consolidated Financial Statements, we make assumptions, judgments, and estimates that can have a significant impact on amounts reported in our Consolidated Financial Statements. We base our assumptions, judgments, and estimates on historical experience and various other factors that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ materially from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions. We regularly reevaluate our assumptions, judgments, and estimates. Our significant accounting policies are described in Note 1,  Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies,  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. We believe that of all our significant accounting policies, the following policies involve a higher degree of judgment and complexity. Accordingly, these are the policies we believe are the most critical to aid in fully understanding and evaluating our financial condition and results of operations. 
    
  Revenue Recognition.      We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable. However, determining whether and when some of these criteria have been satisfied often involves assumptions and judgments that can have a significant impact on the timing and amount of revenue we report. 
    
  For multiple element arrangements containing only software and software-related elements, we allocate the sales price among each of the deliverables using the residual method, under which revenue is allocated to undelivered elements based on our vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value. VSOE is the price charged when an element is sold separately or a price set by management with the relevant authority. If we do not have VSOE of an undelivered software license, we defer revenue recognition on the entire sales arrangement until all elements for which we do not have VSOE are delivered. If we do not have VSOE for undelivered maintenance or services, the revenue for the arrangement is recognized over the longest contractual service period in the arrangement. We are required to exercise judgment in determining whether VSOE exists for each undelivered element based on whether our pricing for these elements is sufficiently consistent. 
    
  For multiple elements arrangements involving non-software elements, including cloud subscription services, our revenue recognition policy is based upon the accounting guidance contained in ASC 605,   Revenue Recognition  . For these arrangements, we first allocate the total arrangement consideration based on the relative selling prices of the software group of elements as a whole and to the non-software elements. We then further allocate consideration within the software group to the respective elements within that group using the residual method as described above. We exercise judgment and use estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of revenue to be recognized in each accounting period. 
    
  We allocate the total arrangement consideration among the various elements based on a selling price hierarchy. The selling price for a deliverable is based on its VSOE if available, third-party evidence ("TPE") if VSOE is not available, or the best estimated selling price ("BESP") if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. BESP represents the price at which Autodesk would transact for the deliverable if it were sold regularly on a standalone basis. To establish BESP for those elements for which neither VSOE nor TPE are available, we perform a quantitative analysis of pricing data points for historical standalone transactions involving such elements for a twelve-month period. As part of this analysis, we monitor and evaluate the BESP against actual pricing to ensure that it continues to represent a reasonable estimate of the standalone selling price, considering several other external and internal factors including, but not limited to, pricing and discounting practices, contractually stated prices, the geographies in which we offer our products and services, and the type of customer (i.e. distributor, value-added  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  39 

Table of Contents   

reseller, and direct end user, among others). We analyze BESP at least annually or on a more frequent basis if a significant change in our business necessitates a more timely analysis or if we experience significant variances in our selling prices. 
    
  In situations when we have multiple contracts with a single counterparty, we use the guidance in ASC 985-605 to evaluate both the form and the substance of the arrangements to determine if they should be combined and accounted for as one arrangement or as separate arrangements. 
    
  Our assessment of the likelihood of collection is also a critical factor in determining the timing of revenue recognition. If we do not believe that collection is probable, the revenue will be deferred until the earlier of when collection is deemed probable or payment is received. 
    
  Our indirect channel model includes both a two-tiered distribution structure, where distributors sell to resellers, and a one-tiered structure where Autodesk sells directly to resellers. Our product license revenue from distributors and resellers are generally recognized at the time title to our product passes to the distributor, in a two-tiered structure, or reseller, in a one-tiered structure, provided all other criteria for revenue recognition are met. This policy is predicated on our ability to estimate sales returns, among other criteria. We are also required to evaluate whether our distributors and resellers have the ability to honor their commitment to make fixed or determinable payments, regardless of whether they collect payment from their customers. Our policy also presumes that we have no significant performance obligations in connection with the sale of our product licenses by our distributors and resellers to their customers. If we were to change any of these assumptions or judgments, it could cause a material increase or decrease in the amount of revenue that we report in a particular period. 
    
  As part of the indirect channel model, we have a partner incentive program that uses quarterly attainment of monetary rewards to motivate distributors and resellers to achieve mutually agreed upon business goals in a specified time period. A portion of these incentives reduce license and other revenue in the current period. The remainder, which relates to incentives on our Subscription Program, is recorded as a reduction to deferred revenue in the period the subscription transaction is billed and subsequently recognized as a reduction to subscription revenue over the contract period. These incentive balances do not require significant assumptions or judgments. The reserves associated with the partner incentive program are treated on the balance sheet as either contra account receivable (when due to distributors and direct resellers) or accounts payable (when due to indirect resellers).  
    
  Marketable Securities.       As described in Note   2  ,    Financial Instruments  ,  in the Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements, our investments in marketable securities are measured at the end of each reporting period and reported at fair value. Fair value is defined as the price that would be received from the sale of an asset or paid to transfer a liability in the principal or most advantageous market for the asset or liability in an orderly transaction between market participants on the measurement date. In determining the fair value of our investments we are sometimes required to use various alternative valuation techniques. Inputs to valuation techniques are either observable or unobservable. Observable inputs reflect market data obtained from independent sources, while unobservable inputs reflect our market assumptions. These two types of inputs have created the following fair value hierarchy: 

Level 1   - Quoted prices for identical instruments in active markets; 

Level 2   - Quoted prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, and model-derived valuations in which all significant inputs and significant value drivers are observable in active markets; and 

Level 3   - Valuations derived from valuation techniques in which one or more significant inputs or significant value drivers are unobservable. 
       
  This hierarchy requires us to minimize the use of unobservable inputs and to use observable market data, if available, when determining fair value. This is generally true for our cash and cash equivalents and the majority of our marketable securities, which we consider to be Level 1 assets and Level 2 assets. However, determining the fair value of marketable securities when observable inputs are not available (Level 3) requires significant judgment. For example, we use probability weighted discounted cash flow models, in which some of the inputs are unobservable in the market, to estimate the fair value of our convertible debt securities. These assumptions are inherently subjective and involve significant management judgment. Whenever possible, we use observable market data and rely on unobservable inputs only when observable market data is not available, when determining fair value. 

2016 Form 10-K  40 

     Table of Contents   

All of Autodesk s marketable securities are subject to a periodic impairment review. We recognize an impairment charge when a decline in the fair value of its investments below the cost basis is judged to be other-than-temporary. Autodesk considers various factors in determining whether to recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than Autodesk s cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and Autodesk s intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the market value.  
    
  Business Combinations.       We allocate the fair value of the consideration transferred to the assets and liabilities acquired, as well as to in-process research and development based on their estimated fair values at the acquisition date. Any residual purchase price is recorded as goodwill. The purchase price allocation requires us to make significant estimates and assumptions, especially at the acquisition date with respect to intangible assets and deferred revenue obligations. 
    
  Although we believe the assumptions and estimates we have made are reasonable, they are based in part on historical experience and information obtained from the management of the acquired companies and are inherently uncertain. Examples of critical estimates used in valuing certain of the intangible assets we have acquired or may acquire in the future include but are not limited to:  

future expected cash flows from sales, maintenance agreements, and acquired developed technologies;  

the acquired company s trade name and customer relationships as well as assumptions about the period of time the acquired trade name and customer relationships will continue to be used in the combined company s product portfolio;  

expected costs to develop the in-process research and development into commercially viable products and estimated cash flows from the projects when completed; and  

discount rates used to determine the present value of estimated future cash flows. 
       
  These estimates are inherently uncertain and unpredictable, and if different estimates were used the purchase price for the acquisition could be allocated to the acquired assets and liabilities differently from the allocation that we have made. In addition, unanticipated events and circumstances may occur which may affect the accuracy or validity of such estimates, and if such events occur we may be required to record a charge against the value ascribed to an acquired asset or an increase in the amounts recorded for assumed liabilities. 
    
  Goodwill.       When we acquire a business, a portion of the consideration transferred is typically allocated to acquired technology and other identifiable intangible assets, such as customer relationships and developed technology. The excess of the consideration transferred over the net of the acquisition-date fair value of identifiable assets acquired and liabilities assumed is recorded as goodwill. The amounts allocated to acquired technology and other intangible assets represent our estimates of their fair values at the acquisition date. We amortize the acquired technology and other intangible assets with finite lives over their estimated useful lives. The estimation of acquisition-date fair values of intangible assets and their useful lives requires us to make assumptions and judgments, including but not limited to an evaluation of macroeconomic conditions as they relate to our business, industry and market trends, projections of future cash flows, and appropriate discount rates.  
    
  We test goodwill for impairment annually in our fourth fiscal quarter or sooner should events or changes in circumstances indicate potential impairment. An optional assessment of qualitative factors of impairment ( optional assessment ) can be performed prior to necessitating a two-step quantitative impairment test. Should the optional assessment be performed for any given fiscal year, qualitative factors to consider include cost factors; financial performance; legal, regulatory, contractual, political, business, or other factors; entity specific factors; industry and market considerations, macroeconomic conditions, and other relevant events and factors affecting the reporting unit. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, it is more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying value, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. 
    
  Under the two-step quantitative impairment test, we use discounted cash flow models that include assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our conclusion as to whether goodwill is impaired, or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result from instances where the fair values of net assets associated with goodwill are less than their carrying values. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. 

2016 Form 10-K  41 

Table of Contents   

For our annual impairment assessment in fiscal   2016  , we utilized the optional assessment for the following reporting units: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business ( PSEB ), Manufacturing ("MFG"), Architecture, Engineering, and Construction ("AEC"), and Media and Entertainment ( M E ). Based on a review of the qualitative factors described above, we determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded the carrying value. As a result, we concluded that performing the two-step impairment test was not necessary, and therefore the goodwill of our PSEB, MFG, AEC, and M E reporting units were not impaired during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016  .  
    
  For the Delcam reporting unit, we deemed the two-step impairment test was necessary and used a discounted cash flow model which included assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Based on this testing, we estimated fair value was   16%   in excess of the carrying value for Delcam, and therefore the goodwill was not impaired during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016  .  
    
  Estimating the fair value of the reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments regarding future cash flows that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results, forecasted billings, revenue, and spend targets, discount rate assumptions, and long-term growth rate assumptions. The estimates and judgments described above could adversely change in future periods and we cannot provide absolute assurance that all of the targets will be achieved, which could lead to future impairment charges.    
    
  Realizability of Long-Lived Assets.       We assess the realizability of our long-lived assets and related intangible assets, other than goodwill, annually during the fourth fiscal quarter, or sooner should events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying values of such assets may not be recoverable. We consider the following factors important in determining when to perform an impairment review: significant under-performance of a business or product line relative to budget; shifts in business strategies which affect the continued uses of the assets; significant negative industry or economic trends; and the results of past impairment reviews. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, we assess recoverability of these assets.  
    
  We assess     recoverability of these assets by comparing the carrying amounts to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate. If impairment indicators were present based on our undiscounted cash flow models, which include assumptions regarding projected cash flows, we would perform a discounted cash flow analysis to assess impairments on long-lived assets. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on our conclusion as to whether an asset is impaired or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result in situations where any fair values of these assets are less than their carrying values. 
    
  In addition to our recoverability assessments, we routinely review the remaining estimated useful lives of our long-lived assets. Any reduction in the useful life assumption will result in increased depreciation and amortization expense in the quarter when such determinations are made, as well as in subsequent quarters. 
    
  We will continue to evaluate the values of our long-lived assets in accordance with applicable accounting rules. As changes in business conditions and our assumptions occur, we may be required to record impairment charges. 
    
  Income Taxes.       We account for income taxes under the asset and liability approach. Under this method, deferred tax assets, including those related to tax loss carryforwards and credits, and deferred tax liabilities are determined based on the differences between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which the differences are expected to reverse. We recognize the tax benefit for an uncertain tax position when it meets a more likely than not threshold. We recognize potential accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as income tax expense.  
    
  A valuation allowance is recorded to reduce deferred tax assets when management cannot conclude that it is more likely than not that the net deferred tax asset will be recovered. The valuation allowance is determined by assessing both positive and negative evidence to determine whether it is more likely than not that deferred tax assets are recoverable; such assessment is required on a jurisdiction-by-jurisdiction basis. Significant judgment is required in determining whether the valuation allowance should be recorded against deferred tax assets. In assessing the need for valuation allowance, we consider all available evidence including past operating results and estimates of future taxable income. Beginning in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, we considered recent cumulative losses in the United States arising from the Company s business model transition as a significant source of negative evidence. Considering this negative evidence and the absence of sufficient positive objective evidence that we would generate sufficient taxable income in our United States tax jurisdiction to realize the deferred tax assets, we determined that is was not more likely than not that the Company would realize US federal and state deferred tax assets and recorded a valuation allowance on our federal and state deferred tax assets. As we continually strive to optimize our overall business model, tax planning strategies may become feasible and prudent whereby management may determine that it is more  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  42 

     Table of Contents   

likely than not that the federal and state deferred tax assets will be realized; therefore, we will continue to evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets each quarter, both in the US and in foreign jurisdictions, based on all available evidence, both positive and negative. 
    
  Stock-Based Compensation  .     We measure stock-based compensation cost at the grant date fair value of the award, and recognize expense ratably over the requisite service period, which is generally the vesting period. We estimate the fair value of certain stock-based payment awards (including grants of employee stock purchases related to the employee stock purchase plan) using either the Black-Scholes-Merton option-pricing model or a binomial-lattice model (e.g., Monte Carlo simulation model). To determine the grant-date fair value of our stock-based payment awards, we use a Black-Scholes model or the quoted stock price on the date of grant, unless the awards are subject to market conditions, in which case we use the Monte Carlo simulation model. The Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables to estimate the probability that market conditions will be achieved. These variables include our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the award, actual and projected employee stock option exercise behaviors, the risk-free interest rate for the expected term of the award, and expected dividends. The variables used in these models are reviewed on a quarterly basis and adjusted, as needed. Share-based compensation cost for restricted stock is measured on the closing fair market value of our common stock on the date of grant. The value of the portion of the award that is ultimately expected to vest is recognized as expense in our Consolidated Statements of Operations. 
    
  Legal Contingencies  .     As described in   Part I  ,   Item 3  ,    Legal Proceedings    and   Part II  ,   Item 8  , Note   8  ,    Commitments and Contingencies  ,  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, we are periodically involved in various legal claims and proceedings. We routinely review the status of each significant matter and assess our potential financial exposure. If the potential loss from any matter is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated, we record a liability for the estimated loss. Because of inherent uncertainties related to these legal matters, we base our loss accruals on the best information available at the time. As additional information becomes available, we reassess our potential liability and may revise our estimates. Such revisions could have a material impact on future quarterly or annual results of operations. 
    
  Recently Issued Accounting Standards 
    
  See   Part II  ,   Item 8  , Note   1  ,    Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  ,  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for a full description of recent accounting pronouncements, including the expected dates of adoption and estimated effects on results of operations and financial condition. 
    
    Overview of Fiscal   2016    

We are undergoing a business model transition in which we will discontinue selling new perpetual licenses in favor of subscriptions and flexible license arrangements. During the transition, billings, revenue, gross margin, operating margin, EPS, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. In order to help better understand our financial performance during and after the transition, we have introduced several new metrics including recurring revenue, total subscriptions, ARR, and annualized revenue per subscription ("ARPS"). ARR and ARPS are performance metrics and should be viewed independently of revenue, deferred revenue, and net billings as ARR and ARPS are not intended to be combined with any of these items.  
    
  During fiscal   2016  , net revenue decreased slightly as compared to the prior fiscal year, gross profit   decreased     2%  , and income from operations   decreased     99%  . Contributing to the year over year decrease in income from operations during fiscal   2016   was an increase in both operating expenses and cost of revenue and a decrease in license and other revenue, partially offset by an increase in subscription revenue. Areas of revenue growth year-over-year included increases in our AEC segment,  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  43 

Table of Contents   

highlighted by an increase in our flexible enterprise offerings, our MFG segment, fueled by growth in Delcam and AutoCAD Mechanical, and the Americas geographic area. We also experienced growth in our total subscriptions and billings during fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  , primarily due to strong maintenance renewals and growth in new offerings such as desktop subscriptions and enterprise offerings. Offsetting these areas of growth were year-over-year revenue declines in our PSEB segment, many of our major products, particularly AutoCAD LT, and the EMEA and APAC geographic areas. 
    
  Income from operations for fiscal   2016   was negatively impacted by increased spend primarily from higher employee-related and cloud-related costs, as well as increased spending on other key initiatives. 
    
  The reasons for these changes are discussed below under the heading  Results from Operations.   
    
  Revenue Analysis 
    
  Revenue from flagship products represented   45%   and   48%   of total net revenue during fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015  , respectively. Revenue from flagship products   decreased   by   5%   as compared to the prior fiscal year. Revenue from suites represented   37%   and   36%   of total net revenue for fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015  , respectively, and remained flat compared to the prior fiscal year. Revenue from new and adjacent products represented   18%   and   16%   of total net revenue during fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015  , respectively. Revenue from new and adjacent products increased by   12%   as compared to fiscal   2015  .  
    
  We rely significantly upon major distributors and resellers in both the U.S. and international regions, including Tech Data Corporation and its global affiliates (collectively,  Tech Data ). Tech Data accounted for   25%   of our consolidated net revenue during both fiscal   2016   and   2015  , respectively. We believe our business is not substantially dependent on Tech Data. Our customers through Tech Data are the resellers and end users who purchase our software licenses and services. Should any of the agreements between Tech Data and us be terminated for any reason, we believe the resellers and end users who currently purchase our products through Tech Data would be able to continue to do so under substantially the same terms from one of our many other distributors without substantial disruption to our revenue.  
    
  Operating Margin Analysis 
    
  Income from operations   decreased     99%   in fiscal   2016   due to an $  82.7 million   or   4%   increase in our operating expenses and a   $28.6 million   or   8%   increase in cost of revenue, as compared to fiscal   2015  . Our operating margin decreased to   0%   for fiscal   2016   from   5%   for fiscal   2015  . The increase in cost of revenue was driven by employee related expenses as a result of increased employee headcount and product support costs. Also contributing to the increase in cost of revenue was an increase in cloud and hosting related costs in support of our business model transition. The increase in operating expenses between fiscal   2016   and   2015   was driven by higher employee related costs due to increased headcount and an increase in IT costs. Also impacting the increase in operating expenses during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015   was an increase stock based compensation expense as a result of higher fair market value of awards granted.  
    
  Further discussion regarding the cost of revenue and operating expense activities are discussed below under the heading  Results of Operations.  
    
  Business Model Transition Metrics 
    
  Recurring revenue represents   the revenue for the period from our maintenance, desktop, cloud services and enterprise license offerings, including portions of revenue allocated to license   other revenue for those offerings. It excludes revenue from Autodesk Consulting Services, and subscription revenue related to education offerings, consumer product offerings, select Creative Finishing product offerings, Autodesk Buzzsaw, Autodesk Constructware, and third party products. Recurring revenue acquired with the acquisition of a business is captured and may cause variability in the comparison of this calculation.   Recurring revenue is a statistical measure rather than a non-GAAP measure and is not meant as a substitute for net revenues.  
    
  During fiscal   2016  , recurring revenue was   54  % of total net revenue as compared to   46  % of total net revenue for fiscal   2015  . 

2016 Form 10-K  44 

     Table of Contents   

The following table outlines our subscriptions, ARR and ARPS metrics as of fiscal years ended January 31,   2016   and January 31,   2015  :    

Year-over-year maintenance subscriptions increased   7%   as of   January 31, 2016   as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. Year-over-year new model subscriptions increased   94%   as of   January 31, 2016   as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year, primarily due to 292% growth in Desktop subscriptions over the corresponding period. Also contributing to the overall subscription growth was an increase in maintenance renewal rates. 
    
  Total Subscriptions ARR increased   10%   as of   January 31, 2016   as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year primarily due to a   68%   increase in New Model ARR driven by desktop license subscriptions and our flexible enterprise offerings. Also contributing to the increase was growth in Maintenance ARR, which increased   2%   as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. 
    
  The   5%   decrease in total ARPS was primarily due to growth in lower-priced subscription offerings causing total subscriptions growth to exceed total subscriptions ARR growth. 
    
  Foreign Currency Analysis 
    
  We generate a significant amount of our revenue in the U.S., Japan, Germany, France, and the United Kingdom. Total net revenue for fiscal   2016   was flat on an as reported basis compared to the prior fiscal year, and was negatively impacted by foreign exchange rate changes during fiscal   2016  . Had applicable exchange rates from fiscal   2015   been in effect during fiscal   2016   and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from both fiscal   2015   and   2016   ( on a constant currency basis ), net revenue would have   increased     4%   compared to the prior fiscal year.  
    
  Our total spend, defined as cost of revenue plus operating expenses, during fiscal   2016     increased     5%   on an as reported basis as compared to the prior fiscal year. Had applicable exchange rates from fiscal   2015   been in effect during fiscal   2016   and had we excluded foreign exchange hedge gains and losses from both fiscal   2015   and   2016  , total spend would have   increased     9%   on a constant currency basis compared to the prior fiscal year.    
    
  Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar may have a significant effect on net revenue, total spend, and income from operations in future periods. We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate effect on a portion of the net revenue and spend of certain anticipated transactions but do not attempt to completely mitigate the impact of fluctuations of such foreign currency against the U.S. dollar. 

2016 Form 10-K  45 

Table of Contents   

Balance Sheet and Cash Flow Items 
    
  At   January 31, 2016  , we had $  2.8 billion   in cash and marketable securities. This amount includes the aggregate net proceeds of   $742.0 million  , after deducting the underwriting discounts and related offering expenses, from our June 2015 registered underwritten public offering of $  450.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   notes due   June 15, 2020   and $  300.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   4.375%   notes due   June 15, 2025  . We completed fiscal   2016   with higher deferred revenue and accounts receivable balances as compared to the prior fiscal year. Our deferred revenue balance at   January 31, 2016   included $  1.1 billion   of deferred subscription revenue primarily related to customer maintenance contracts, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the life of the contracts. The term of our maintenance contracts is typically between one and three years. Our cash flow from operations   decreased     42%   to   $414.0 million   as of   January 31, 2016   from   $708.1 million   at   January 31, 2015  . We repurchased   8.5 million   shares of our common stock for $  458.0 million   during fiscal   2016  . Comparatively, we repurchased   6.9 million   shares of our common stock for $  372.4 million   during fiscal   2015  . Further discussion regarding the balance sheet and cash flow activities are discussed below under the heading  Liquidity and Capital Resources.   
    
  Business Outlook 
    
  Autodesk is undergoing a business model transition in which the company will discontinue selling new perpetual licenses in favor of subscriptions and flexible license arrangements. During the transition, billings, revenue, gross margin, operating margin, EPS, deferred revenue, and cash flow from operations will be impacted as more revenue is recognized ratably rather than up front and as new offerings bring a wider variety of price points. Over time, we expect our business model transition to expand our customer base by eliminating higher up-front licensing costs and provide more flexibility in how customers gain access to and pay for our products. In the future, we expect this business model transition will increase our long-term revenue growth rate by increasing total subscriptions, ARR, and customer value over time. 
  In February 2016 we commenced a restructuring plan to reduce headcount by approximately 10% and to consolidate certain facilities around the world in order to accelerate the Company s move to the cloud and its transition to a subscription-based business model. Through the restructuring, we seek to reduce expenses, streamline the organization, and reallocate resources to align more closely with the Company s needs going forward. See further discussion of our restructuring plan in Note 17,  Subsequent Events  of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. As a result of these actions, we have incurred and will incur additional costs in the short term that negatively impact our net income and cash flows from operating activities and have the effect of reducing our operating margins.   
 _______________ 
  (1)   Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share exclude $0.28 related to restructuring expense, $0.27 related to stock-based compensation expense, between $0.18 and $0.14 of GAAP-only tax charges, and $0.10 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, offset by $0.02 for gains on strategic investments.    

2016 Form 10-K  46 

     Table of Contents   

_______________ 
  (1) Excluding the impact of foreign currency rates and hedge gains/losses revenue guidance would be $2.0 - $2.1 billion.    
  (2) Non-GAAP spend excludes $234 million related to stock-based compensation expense, $88 million related to restructuring expense, and $67 million for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles.    
  (3) Non-GAAP earnings per diluted share excludes $1.05 related to stock-based compensation expense, between $0.75 and $0.59 of GAAP-only tax charges, $0.39 related to restructuring expense, and $0.30 for the amortization of acquisition related intangibles, offset by $0.02 for gains on strategic investments.    
    
  We remain diligent about managing our spend while making essential investments to drive growth. 
    
    Results of Operations 

Fiscal   2016   Net Revenue Compared to Fiscal   2015   Net Revenue 
    
  License and Other Revenue 
    
  License and other revenue consists of two components: (1) all forms of product license revenue and (2) other revenue. Product license revenue includes software license revenue from the sale of perpetual licenses, term-based licenses from our desktop subscription and enterprise offerings, and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network, and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized as the services are performed. 

2016 Form 10-K  47 

Table of Contents   

Total License and other revenue   decreased     9%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015  . This decrease was primarily due to an   11%   decrease in product license revenue as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The decrease in product license revenue was primarily due to a 14% decrease in revenue from our flagship products and a 12% decrease in our suites revenue. Product license revenue, as a percentage of license and other revenue, was   88%   and   89%   for fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015  , respectively.  
    
  During fiscal   2016  , the   11%   decrease in product license revenue was due to an   18%     decrease   in the average net revenue per seat while the number of seats sold increased by   7%   compared to the prior fiscal year.   Starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and in connection with the discontinuation of sales of individual perpetual licenses, we will stop reporting changes in revenue attributable to average net revenue per seat and number of seats sold. We are replacing these disclosures with disclosure regarding changes in ARPS disclosed within Overview above. ARPS is more relevant to determine whether changes in net revenues are attributable to increases in price or volume. 
    
  During fiscal   2016  , total other revenue represented   12%   of license and other revenue, and   6%   of total net revenue. Other revenue   increased   by   12%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015  . This increase is primarily due to an 11% increase in revenue from consulting and a 38% increase in revenue from our consumer product offerings, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from our education products as a result of our strategic transition to offer free educational licenses of Autodesk software to students, educators, and institutions. 
    
  Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the fiscal year   decreased   by   $9.0 million   from   $40.4 million   at   January 31, 2015   to   $31.4 million   at   January 31, 2016  . Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status.  
    
    Subscription Revenue 
    
  Our Subscription revenue consists of three components: (1) maintenance revenue from our software products; (2)     maintenance revenue from our term-based desktop subscription and enterprise offerings; and (3) revenue from our cloud service offerings. Our maintenance program provides our customers of software products with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under our maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses, and online support. We recognize maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement, which is generally between one and three years. Revenue for our cloud service offerings is recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date our service is made available to customers and all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. 
    
  Subscription revenue   increased     9%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015   primarily due to a   9%     increase   in commercial maintenance revenue. The   9%     increase   in commercial maintenance revenue was due to a   12%     increase   from commercial enrollment during the corresponding maintenance contract term, offset by a   3%     decrease   from net revenue per maintenance seat. Commercial maintenance revenue represented   96%   of Subscription revenue for both fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015  , respectively.   Starting in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, and in connection with the discontinuation of sales of individual perpetual licenses, we will stop reporting changes in revenue attributable to average net revenue per seat and number of seats sold. We are replacing these disclosures with disclosure regarding changes in ARPS disclosed within Overview above. ARPS is more relevant to determine whether changes in net revenues are attributable to increases in price or volume. 
    
  Changes in Subscription revenue lag changes in net billings for subscription contracts because we recognize the revenue from those contracts ratably over their contract terms. Net subscription billings   increased     16%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in multi-year maintenance subscription billings.  
    
  Our deferred subscription revenue balance at   January 31, 2016   and   January 31, 2015   was $  1.1 billion   and $  0.9 billion  , respectively, and primarily related to customer maintenance agreements, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement. 

2016 Form 10-K  48 

       Table of Contents   

Net Revenue by Geographic Area 
    
  Net revenue in the Americas geography   increase  d by   8%   as reported and 9% on a constant currency basis during fiscal   2016  , as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a   20%     increase   in our new and adjacent product revenue and an   8%     increase   in our suites revenue in this geography during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015  . The increase in this geography was led by the U.S. 
    
  Net revenue in the EMEA geography   decreased   by   5%   on an as reported basis and increased   3%   on a constant currency basis during fiscal   2016   as compared to the prior fiscal year. This decrease was primarily due to a   7%     decrease   in our flagship products and a   5%     decrease   in our suites revenue in this geography during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015  . The decrease in our revenue in this geography was led by Germany and Russia, partially offset by an increase in revenue from Ireland. 
    
  Net revenue in the APAC geography   decreased     6%   on an as reported basis and   1%   on a constant currency basis, during fiscal   2016   as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a   10%     decrease   in our flagship products, partially offset by an   8%   increase in our new and adjacent product revenue in this geography. The decrease in revenue in this geography during fiscal   2016   was led by Japan, partially offset by an increase in revenue from China. 
    
  Net revenue in emerging economies   decreased     4%   on an as reported basis and   2%   on a constant currency basis, during fiscal   2016   as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to decreases in revenue from Russia and Brazil, partially offset by an increase in revenue from China. Revenue from emerging economies represented   15%   of total net revenue for both fiscal   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  International net revenue represented   68%   and   71%   of our total net revenue for fiscal   2016   and   2015  , respectively. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue. Unfavorable economic conditions in the countries that contribute a significant portion of our net revenue, including in emerging economies, may have an adverse effect on our business in those countries and our overall financial performance. Changes in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to other currencies have significantly affected, and could continue to significantly affect, our financial results for a given period even though we hedge a portion of our current and projected revenue. Additionally, weak global economic conditions that have been characterized by restructuring of sovereign debt, high unemployment, and volatility in the financial markets may impact our future financial results.  
    
    Net Revenue by Operating Segment 
    
  We have four reportable segments: AEC, MFG, PSEB, and M E. We have no material inter-segment revenue. 
    
  Net revenue for AEC   increased   by   9%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to an 8% increase in revenue from our AEC suites, which was primarily driven by Autodesk Building Design Suite and Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite.  
    
  Net revenue for MFG   increased   by   7%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 78% increase in revenue from our Delcam products as a result of including 12 months of Delcam operating results during fiscal   2016  , compared to 10 months during fiscal   2015  . Also contributing to the increase in net revenue for MFG during fiscal 2016 was a 12% increase in revenue from our flagship product AutoCAD Mechanical. 
    
  Net revenue for PSEB   decreased   by   16%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 26% decrease in revenue from our flagship product AutoCAD LT. Revenue from AutoCAD decreased by 4% in fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015  .  
    
  Net revenue for M E   decreased   by   4%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 21% decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing, partially offset by a 1% increase in revenue from Animation. The decline in Creative Finishing was marked by a decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing hardware products and by a general decrease in the M E industry end-market demand. The slight increase in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 168% increase in our Shotgun product offering as a result of including a full year of Shotgun operating results in fiscal   2016   as compared to six months during fiscal   2015  , and a 7% increase in our Maya flagship product offerings, partially offset by a 46% decrease in our Middleware product offerings. M E revenue is impacted by a general decrease in the M E industry end-market demand, the planned inclusion of our M E products in other Autodesk industry suites, and the business model transition as customers are opting for desktop subscription and flexible enterprise offerings. At the beginning of the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, we exited  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  49 

Table of Contents   

the Creative Finishing hardware business. This was an immaterial portion of our overall business and comes with substantially lower margins, so we expect that exiting this business will improve our margins within M E over time. 
    
    Fiscal 2015 Net Revenue Compared to Fiscal 2014 Net Revenue 
    
  License and Other Revenue 
    
  Total License and other revenue increased 7% during fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. This increase was primarily due to a 7% increase in product license revenue as compared to the same period in the prior fiscal year. The increase in product license revenue was primarily due to an 8% increase in suites revenue and an increase of 4% in revenue from our flagship products.  
    
  During fiscal 2015, the 7% increase in product license revenue was due to a 7% increase in the average net revenue per seat while the number of seats sold remained flat compared to the prior fiscal year. Product license revenue, as a percentage of License and other revenue, was 89% for both fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014.  
    
  During fiscal 2015, total other revenue represented 11% of license and other revenue, and 6% of total net revenue. Other revenue increased by 7% during fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. This increase is primarily due to a 17% increase in revenue from consulting, partially offset by a 65% decrease in revenue from our education products as a result of our strategic transition to offer free educational licenses of Autodesk software to students, educators, and institutions.  
    
  Backlog related to current software license product orders that had not shipped at the end of the fiscal year increased by $20.7 million from $19.7 million at January 31, 2014 to $40.4 million at January 31, 2015. Backlog from current software license product orders that we have not yet shipped consists of orders for currently available licensed software products from customers with approved credit status.  
    
  Subscription Revenue 
    
  Subscription revenue increased 15% during fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014 primarily due to a 15% increase in commercial maintenance revenue. The 15% increase in commercial maintenance revenue was due to a 9% increase from net revenue per maintenance seat and a 6% increase from commercial enrollment during the corresponding maintenance contract term. Commercial maintenance revenue represented 96% and 95% of Subscription revenue for fiscal 2015 and fiscal 2014, respectively.  
    
  Changes in Subscription revenue lag changes in net billings for subscription contracts because we recognize the revenue from those contracts ratably over their contract terms. Net subscription billings increased 22% during fiscal 2015 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to an increase in maintenance subscription billings.  
    
  Our deferred subscription revenue balance at January 31, 2015 and January 31, 2014 was $936.8 million and $789.3 million, respectively, and primarily related to customer maintenance agreements, which will be recognized as revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement. 
    
  Net Revenue by Geographic Area 
    
  Net revenue in the Americas geography increased by 10% as reported and on a constant currency basis during fiscal 2015, as compared to the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to a 16% increase in our suites revenue and an 18% increase in our new and adjacent product revenue in this geography during fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. The increase in this geography was led by the U.S.  
    
  Net revenue in the EMEA geography increased by 15% on an as reported basis and 13% on a constant currency basis during fiscal 2015 as compared to the prior fiscal year. This increase was primarily due to a 24% increase in our suites products and a 45% increase in our new and adjacent product revenue in this geography during fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014. The increase in our revenue in this geography was led by Germany and France. 
    
  Net revenue in the APAC geography increased 5% on an as reported basis and 11% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2015 as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to a 4% increase in our flagship products and a 5% increase in our suites products in this geography. Our revenue in this geography during fiscal 2015 benefited from increases in revenue from South Korea and India, partially offset by a decrease in revenue from Japan.  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  50 

     Table of Contents   

Net revenue in emerging economies increased 14% on an as reported basis and 13% on a constant currency basis, during fiscal 2015 as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to increases in revenue from India and Mexico. Revenue from emerging economies represented 15% of total net revenue for both fiscal 2015 and 2014.  
    
  International net revenue represented 71% and 70% of our total net revenue for fiscal 2015 and 2014, respectively. We believe that international revenue will continue to comprise a majority of our total net revenue.  
    
  Net Revenue by Operating Segment 
    
  Net revenue for AEC increased by 19% during fiscal 2015 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 31% increase in revenue from our AEC suites, which was primarily driven by Autodesk Building Design Suite and Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suite.  
    
  Net revenue for PSEB increased by 1% during fiscal 2015 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to a 3% increase in revenue from our flagship product AutoCAD LT. Revenue from AutoCAD remained flat in fiscal 2015 as compared to fiscal 2014.  
    
  Net revenue for MFG increased by 17% during fiscal 2015 as compared to the prior fiscal year primarily due to the acquisition of Delcam plc ("Delcam"). Also contributing to the increase in net revenue for MFG was a 9% increase in revenue from our MFG suites, which was primarily driven by the Autodesk Product Design Suite, as compared to fiscal 2014.  
    
  Net revenue for M E decreased by 4% during fiscal 2015 as compared to the prior fiscal year, primarily due to an 11% decrease in revenue from Creative Finishing and a 2% decrease in revenue from Animation. The decline in Creative Finishing was marked by a general decrease in the M E industry end-market demand, partially offset by a 33% increase in sales of our Creative Finishing hardware products. The decrease in Animation revenue was primarily due to a 20% decrease in revenue from our M E suites, which was driven by our Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suite, partially offset by a 5% increase in our flagship product 3ds Max.  
    
    Cost of Revenue and Operating Expenses 
    
  Cost of Revenue 

Cost of license and other revenue includes labor costs associated with product setup and fulfillment and costs of consulting and training services contracts and collaborative project management services contracts. Cost of license and other revenue also includes stock-based compensation expense, direct material and overhead charges, amortization of developed technology, allocated IT and facilities costs, professional services fees and royalties. Direct material and overhead charges include the cost of hardware sold (mainly PC-based workstations for Creative Finishing in the M E segment), and costs associated with electronic and physical fulfillment. 
    
  Cost of license and other revenue   increased     3%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015  , primarily due to an increase in hardware related costs from our consumer related products, an increase in allocated IT costs, and employee related costs for product support and fulfillment driven by an increase in headcount, partially offset by a decrease in amortization of developed technology. Cost of license and other revenue   increased     17%   during fiscal   2015  , as compared to fiscal   2014  ,  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  51 

Table of Contents   

primarily from the acquisition of Delcam and consulting support costs associated with an increased headcount and increased professional fees related to the building out of the consulting services offered within customer contracts.  
    
  Cost of subscription revenue includes the labor costs of providing product support to our maintenance and cloud subscription customers, including rent and occupancy, shipping and handling costs, professional services fees related to operating our network infrastructure, depreciation expense and operating lease payments associated with computer equipment, data center costs, salaries, related expenses of network operations, and allocated IT and facilities costs.  
    
  Cost of subscription revenue   increased     17%   during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015   primarily due to an increase in cloud and hosting related costs in support of our business model transition, and an increase in employee related costs driven by increased employee headcount and product support costs. Cost of subscription revenue   increased     40%   during fiscal   2015   as compared to fiscal   2014   primarily due to higher employee related costs as a result of increased premium support headcount as well as an increase in cloud services related expenses. 
    
  Cost of revenue, at least over the near term, is affected by the volume and mix of product sales, mix of physical versus electronic fulfillment, fluctuations in consulting costs, amortization of purchased technology, new customer support offerings, royalty rates for licensed technology embedded in our products, and employee stock-based compensation expense.  
    
  We expect cost of revenue to decrease in absolute dollars and increase as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  . 
    
    Marketing and Sales 

Marketing and sales expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for our marketing and sales employees, the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, the costs of programs aimed at increasing revenue, such as advertising, trade shows and expositions, and various sales and promotional programs. Marketing and sales expenses also include labor costs associated with sales and order processing, sales and dealer commissions, rent and occupancy, payment processing fees, the cost of supplies and equipment, and allocated IT and facilities costs.  
    
  Marketing and sales expenses   increased     2%   during fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  , primarily due to an increase in stock based compensation expense as a result of higher fair market value of awards granted, an increase in salaries predominantly driven by increased headcount, and an increase in IT costs allocated to marketing and sales. Partially offsetting the increase in expense was a decrease in sales commission expense. 
    
  Marketing and sales expenses   increased     18%   during fiscal   2015  , as compared to fiscal   2014  , primarily due to higher employee-related costs from salaries, commissions, and bonuses as well as advertising and promotional expenses. 
    
  We expect marketing and sales expense to decrease in absolute dollars and increase as a percentage of net revenue in fiscal   2017   as compared to fiscal   2016  . 

2016 Form 10-K  52 

       Table of Contents   

Research and Development 

Research and development expenses, which are expensed as incurred, consist primarily of salaries, bonuses, benefits, and stock-based compensation expense for research and development employees, and the expense of travel, entertainment and training for such personnel, rent and occupancy, professional services such as fees paid to software development firms and independent contractors, and allocated IT and facilities costs. 
    
  Research and development expenses   increased     9%   during fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  , primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs from salaries and fringe benefits predominantly driven by increased headcount, an increase in IT costs allocated to research and development, and an increase in stock based compensation expense due to higher fair market value of awards granted. 
    
  Research and development expenses   increased     19%   during fiscal   2015  , as compared to fiscal   2014  , primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs from salaries and bonuses and an increase in professional fees. 
    
  We expect research and development expense to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  . 
    
    General and Administrative 
    
  For comparability, the balances at January 31,   2015   and January 31,   2014  , including the table, were adjusted to align to current year presentation, and therefore the discussion has been updated accordingly. 

General and administrative expenses include salaries, bonuses, benefits and stock-based compensation expense for our finance, human resources and legal employees, as well as professional fees for legal and accounting services, certain foreign business taxes, gains and losses on our operating expense cash flow hedges, expense of travel, entertainment and training, expense of communication and the cost of supplies and equipment. 
    
  General and administrative expenses   increased     4%   from fiscal   2015   to fiscal   2016   primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs from salaries predominantly driven by increased headcount. Partially offsetting the increase in expense was a decrease in certain foreign business taxes.  
    
  General and administrative expenses   increased     34%   from fiscal   2014   to fiscal   2015  , primarily due to an increase in employee-related costs from salaries and bonuses and an increase in professional fees. 
    
  We expect general and administrative expense to increase in absolute dollars and as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  . 

2016 Form 10-K  53 

Table of Contents   

Amortization of Purchased Intangibles 

Amortization of purchased intangibles   decreased     17%   from fiscal   2015   to fiscal   2016  , primarily related to the accumulated effects associated with amortization expense of intangible assets purchased over time, including $  59.1 million   in assets purchased in fiscal   2016   as compared to   $164.1 million   purchased in fiscal   2015  .  
    
  Amortization of purchased intangibles   increased     9%   from fiscal   2014   to fiscal   2015  , primarily related to the accumulated effects associated with amortization expense of intangible assets purchased over time, including   $164.1 million   in assets purchased in fiscal   2015   as compared to $40.3 million purchased in fiscal   2014  . 
    
  We expect amortization of purchased intangibles expense to decrease in absolute dollars and remain flat as a percentage of net revenue during fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  . 
    
    Restructuring Charges, Net 

During fiscal   2016  , Autodesk recorded   no   restructuring charges. We have substantially completed the actions authorized under the previous restructuring plans. See Note   15  ,    Restructuring Reserves    in Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion regarding the previous restructuring plans.  
    
  On February 2, 2016, our Board of Directors approved a world-wide restructuring plan that includes a reduction in force that will result in the termination of approximately 10% of the Company s workforce, or approximately   925   employees, and the consolidation of certain leased facilities. See Note   17  , "  Subsequent Events (Unaudited)  ," for further discussion regarding the anticipated amount and timing of the expenditures related to this action. 
    
    Interest and Other Expense, Net 
    
  The following table sets forth the components of interest and other expense, net: 

2016 Form 10-K  54 

     Table of Contents   

Interest and other expense, net, decreased $  16.1 million   during fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  , The decrease is primarily related to non-recurring settlement gains on certain of our privately-held strategic investments and mark-to-mark gains recognized on the derivative portion on certain of our other privately-held strategic investments during the current fiscal year. Comparatively, we incurred non-recurring impairment losses on certain of our privately-held strategic investments in the same periods in the prior fiscal year. This decrease was offset by an increase in interest expense resulting from the June 2015 issuance of $  450.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   senior notes due   June 15, 2020   and $  300.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   4.375%   senior notes due   June 15, 2025  .  
    
  Interest and other expense, net, increased $  32.8 million   during fiscal   2015  , as compared to fiscal   2014  , primarily due to an increase in losses on our privately held strategic investments. The increase in the loss on strategic investments during fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015   is primarily due to other-than-temporary impairments on two of our privately held strategic investments and losses on the derivative portion of our strategic investments that are marked-to-market each period.  
    
    Provision for Income Taxes 
    
  We account for income taxes and the related accounts under the liability method. Deferred tax liabilities and assets are determined based on the difference between the financial statement and tax bases of assets and liabilities, using enacted rates expected to be in effect during the year in which the basis differences reverse. 
    
  Income tax expense was   $310.2 million   and   $1.2 million   for fiscal   2016   and   2015  , respectively, relative to a pre-tax loss of   $20.3 million   and pre-tax income of   $83.0 million  , respectively, for the same periods.  Tax expense for fiscal 2016 consists primarily of foreign taxes and changes to valuation allowances, including a $230.8 million valuation allowance against the Company's U.S. federal and remaining state deferred tax assets recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. We regularly assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.  In making that assessment, we consider both positive and negative evidence, whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.  In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, we considered recent cumulative losses in the United States arising from the Company's business model transition as a significant piece of negative evidence and determined that it was more likely than not that the federal and state deferred tax assets would not be realized.  
    
  Income tax expense was   $1.2 million   and   $51.1 million   for fiscal   2015   and   2014  , respectively, relative to pre-tax income of   $83.0 million   and   $279.9 million  , respectively, for the same periods. Our effective tax rate was   1%   and   18%   during fiscal   2015   and   2014  , respectively. Our effective tax rate decreased seventeen percentage points from fiscal   2014   to fiscal   2015   due to an increase in tax benefits from foreign earnings taxed at different rates in fiscal   2015   compared to fiscal   2014  , and increased benefit from research credits, offset in part by lower tax benefits from stock-based compensation. 
    
  The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015 enacted on December 18, 2015 extended and made permanent the federal R D tax credit. As a result, our income tax provision for Fiscal 2016 includes a tax benefit of   $9.4 million   which was offset by the valuation allowance against our U.S. deferred tax assets. 
    
  Our future effective annual tax rate may be materially impacted by the amount of benefits and charges from tax amounts associated with our foreign earnings that are taxed at rates different from the federal statutory rate, changes in valuation allowances, level of profit before tax, accounting for uncertain tax positions, business combinations, closure of statute of limitations or settlement of tax audits, and changes in tax laws including possible U.S. tax law changes that, if enacted, could significantly impact how U.S. multinational companies are taxed on foreign subsidiary earnings. A significant amount of our earnings is generated by our Europe and Asia Pacific subsidiaries. Our future effective tax rates may be adversely affected to the extent earnings are lower than anticipated in countries where we have lower statutory tax rates or we repatriate certain foreign earnings on which U.S. taxes have not previously been provided.  
    
  At   January 31, 2016  , we had non-current foreign net deferred tax assets of $  9.2 million   which management believes are more likely than not to be realized in future years. 
    
  For additional information regarding our income tax provision and reconciliation of our effective rate to the federal statutory rate of 35%, see Note   4  ,    Income Taxes  ,  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

2016 Form 10-K  55 

Table of Contents   

Other Financial Information 
    
  In addition to our results determined under U.S. generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) discussed above, we believe the following non-GAAP measures are useful to investors in evaluating our operating performance. For the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , our gross profit, gross margin, income from operations, operating margin, net (loss) income, and diluted net (loss) income per share on a GAAP and non-GAAP basis were as follows (in millions except for year-over-year change in total net revenue and billings, year-over-year change in net subscription revenue and billings, gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Prior period was adjusted to conform with current period's presentation to include the effects from hedging on billings. 
              (2)   
    Net (loss) income per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the net (loss) income per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year. 
       
  For our internal budgeting and resource allocation process and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons, we use non-GAAP measures to supplement our consolidated financial statements presented on a GAAP basis. These non-GAAP measures do not include certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. We also use non-GAAP measures in making operating decisions because we believe those measures provide meaningful supplemental information regarding our earning potential and performance for management by excluding certain expenses and charges that may not be indicative of our core business operating results. For the reasons set forth below, we believe these non-GAAP financial measures are useful to investors both because (1) they allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in its financial and operational decision-making and (2) they are used by our institutional investors and the analyst community to help them analyze the health of our business. This allows investors and others to better understand and evaluate our operating results and future prospects in the same manner as management, compare financial results across accounting periods and to those of peer companies and to better understand the long-term performance of our core business. We also use some of these measures for purposes of determining company-wide incentive compensation.  
    
  There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP and may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by other companies. The non-GAAP financial measures included above are limited in value because they exclude certain items that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. In addition, they are subject to inherent limitations as they reflect the exercise of judgments by management about which charges are excluded from the non-GAAP financial measures. We compensate for these limitations by  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  56 

       Table of Contents   

analyzing current and future results on a GAAP basis as well as a non-GAAP basis and also by providing GAAP measures in our public disclosures. The presentation of non-GAAP financial information is meant to be considered in addition to, not as a substitute for or in isolation from, the directly comparable financial measures prepared in accordance with GAAP. We urge investors to review the reconciliation of our non-GAAP financial measures to the comparable GAAP financial measures included below, and not to rely on any single financial measure to evaluate our business.  

2016 Form 10-K  57 

Table of Contents   

Reconciliation of GAAP Financial Measures to Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
    
  (In millions except for year-over-year changes, gross margin, operating margin, and per share data): 

2016 Form 10-K  58 

     Table of Contents   

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Prior period was adjusted to conform with current period's presentation to include the effects from hedging on billings. 
              (2) 
    Net (loss) income per share were computed independently for each of the periods presented; therefore the sum of the net (loss) income per share amount for the quarters may not equal the total for the year.  
       
  Our non-GAAP financial measures may exclude the following: 
    
  Stock-based compensation expense  s.  We exclude stock-based compensation expenses from non-GAAP measures primarily because they are non-cash expenses and management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Moreover, because of varying available valuation methodologies, subjective assumptions and the variety of award types that companies can use under FASB ASC Topic 718, we believe excluding stock-based compensation expenses allows investors to make meaningful comparisons between our recurring core business operating results and those of other companies. 
    
  Amortization of acquisition-related developed technologies and purchased intangibles.    We incur amortization of acquisition-related developed technology and purchased intangibles in connection with acquisitions of certain businesses and technologies. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangibles is inconsistent in amount and frequency and is significantly affected by the timing and size of our acquisitions. Management finds it useful to exclude these variable charges from our cost of revenues to assist in budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. Investors should note that the use of intangible assets contributed to our revenues earned during the periods presented and will contribute to our future period revenues as well. Amortization of developed technologies and purchased intangible assets will recur in future periods. 
    
  Goodwill impairment.    This is a non-cash charge to write-down goodwill to fair value when there was an indication that the asset was impaired. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various operating expenses to assist in budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. 
    
  Restructuring charges (benefits), net.    These expenses are associated with realigning our business strategies based on current economic conditions. In connection with these restructuring actions, we recognize costs related to termination benefits for former employees whose positions were eliminated, and the closure of facilities and cancellation of certain contracts. We exclude these charges because these expenses are not reflective of ongoing business and operating results. We believe it is useful for investors to understand the effects of these items on our total operating expenses.  
    
  Loss (gain) on strategic investments.   We exclude gains and losses related to our strategic investments from our non-GAAP measures primarily because management finds it useful to exclude these variable gains and losses on these investments in assessing our financial results. Included in these amounts are non-cash unrealized gains and losses on the derivative components and realized gains and losses on the sale or losses on the impairment of these investments. We believe excluding these items is useful to investors because these excluded items do not correlate to the underlying performance of our business and these losses or gains were incurred in connection with strategic investments which do not occur regularly.  

2016 Form 10-K  59 

Table of Contents   

Establishment of a valuation allowance on certain net deferred tax assets.    This is a non-cash charge to record a valuation allowance on certain deferred tax assets. As explained above, management finds it useful to exclude certain non-cash charges to assess the appropriate level of various cash expenses to assist in budgeting, planning, and forecasting future periods. 
    
  Discrete tax items.   We exclude the GAAP tax provision, including discrete items, from the non-GAAP measure of income, and include a non-GAAP tax provision based upon the projected annual non-GAAP effective tax rate. Discrete tax items include income tax expenses or benefits that do not relate to ordinary income from continuing operations in the current fiscal year, unusual or infrequently occurring items, or the tax impact of certain stock-based compensation. Examples of discrete tax items include, but are not limited to, certain changes in judgment and changes in estimates of tax matters related to prior fiscal years, certain costs related to business combinations, certain changes in the realizability of deferred tax assets or changes in tax law. Management believes this approach assists investors in understanding the tax provision and the effective tax rate related to ongoing operations. We believe the exclusion of these discrete tax items provides investors with useful supplemental information about the Company's operational performance. 
    
  Income tax effects on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP costs and expenses.   The income tax effects that are excluded from the non-GAAP measures relate to the tax impact on the difference between GAAP and non-GAAP expenses, primarily due to stock-based compensation, amortization of purchased intangibles and restructuring charges (benefits) for GAAP and non-GAAP measures. 
    
    Liquidity and Capital Resources 
    
  Our primary source of cash is from the sale of licenses to our products. Our primary use of cash is payment of our operating costs, which consist primarily of employee-related expenses, such as compensation and benefits, as well as general operating expenses for marketing, facilities, and overhead costs. In addition to operating expenses, we also use cash to fund our stock repurchase program and invest in our growth initiatives, which include acquisitions of products, technology, and businesses. See further discussion of these items below. 
    
  At   January 31, 2016  , our principal sources of liquidity were cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling $  2.8 billion   and net accounts receivable of $  653.6 million  . Net of long-term debt, we have cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities totaling   $1.3 billion   at   January 31, 2016  . 
    
  In June 2015, we issued $  450.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   senior notes due   June 15, 2020   and $  300.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   4.375%   senior notes due   June 15, 2025  . In December 2012, we issued $  400.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   1.95%   notes due   December 15, 2017   and $  350.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.6%   notes due   December 15, 2022   (all four series of notes collectively, the  Notes ). As of   March 23, 2016  , we have $  1.5 billion   aggregate principal amount of Notes outstanding. In addition, we have a line of credit facility that permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $  400.0 million  . As of   March 23, 2016  , we have   no   amounts outstanding under the credit facility. In May 2015, Autodesk amended and restated the credit agreement to extend the facility's maturity date from May 2018 to   May 2020   and to amend the financial covenants. Borrowings under the credit facility and the net proceeds from the offering of the Notes are available for general corporate purposes.  
    
  Our cash and cash equivalents are held by diversified financial institutions globally. Our primary commercial banking relationship is with Citigroup and its global affiliates. In addition, Citibank N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, is one of the lead lenders and agent in the syndicate of our $  400.0 million   line of credit. 
    
  The increase in our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities to $  2.8 billion   at   January 31, 2016   from $  2.3 billion   at   January 31, 2015   was primarily the result of the proceeds from the issuance of our June 2015 notes and the result of cash generated from operations. These increases to cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities were partially offset by cash used for repurchases of our common stock (net of stock issuance proceeds), acquisitions including business combinations and technology purchases, capital expenditures, and other investing activities. The cash proceeds from issuance of common stock vary based on our stock price, stock option exercise activity and the volume of employee purchases under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan. 
    
  The primary source of net cash provided by operating activities of $  414.0 million   in fiscal   2016   was   $578.9 million   of non-cash expenses, including our deferred tax asset valuation allowance, stock-based compensation expense, and depreciation, amortization and accretion expense, offsetting our net loss of   $330.5 million  . In addition, net cash flow provided by changes in operating assets and liabilities was   $190.6 million  . The primary working capital sources of cash was an increase in deferred revenue for fiscal   2016   compared to fiscal   2015  . Our days sales outstanding in trade receivables was   92   at   January 31, 2016    
    
  2016 Form 10-K  60 

     Table of Contents   

compared to   63   at   January 31, 2015  . The increase in days sales outstanding primarily relates to a shift in billings linearity. The primary working capital use of cash was an increase in accounts receivable for fiscal   2016   compared to fiscal   2015  . 
    
  At   January 31, 2016  , our short-term investment portfolio had an estimated fair value of $  897.9 million   and a cost basis of $  899.0 million  . The portfolio fair value consisted of   $376.9 million   invested in corporate debt securities,   $190.3 million   invested in certificates of deposit,   $141.1 million   invested in commercial paper,   $74.6 million   invested in U.S. treasury bills,   $39.9 million   invested in U.S. government agency securities,   $20.1 million   invested in sovereign debt,   $9.7 million   invested in municipal securities, and   $7.3 million   invested in asset backed securities, and $  38.0 million   of trading securities invested in a defined set of mutual funds as directed by the participants in our Deferred Compensation Plan (see Note   6  ,    Deferred Compensation  ,  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion). 
    
  Long-term cash requirements for items other than normal operating expenses are anticipated for the following: common stock repurchases; the acquisition of businesses, software products, or technologies complementary to our business; and capital expenditures, including the purchase and implementation of internal-use software applications. 
    
  Our strategy includes improving our product functionality and expanding our product offerings through internal development as well as through the acquisition of products, technology, and businesses. Acquisitions often increase the speed at which we can deliver product functionality to our customers; however, they entail cost and integration challenges and, in certain instances, negatively impact our operating margins. We continually review these trade-offs in making decisions regarding acquisitions. We currently anticipate that we will continue to acquire products, technology, and businesses as compelling opportunities become available. Our decision to acquire businesses or technology is dependent on our business needs, the availability of suitable sellers and technology, and our own financial condition. 
    
  Our cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities balances are concentrated in a few locations around the world, with substantial amounts held outside of the U.S. As of   January 31, 2016  , approximately   74%   of our total cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities are located offshore and will fluctuate subject to business needs. Certain amounts held outside the U.S. could be repatriated to the U.S. (subject to local law restrictions), but under current U.S. tax law, could be subject to U.S. income taxes less applicable foreign tax credits. We have provided for the U.S. income tax liability on foreign earnings, except for foreign earnings that are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. Our intent is that amounts related to foreign earnings permanently reinvested outside the U.S. will remain outside the U.S. and we will meet our U.S. liquidity needs through ongoing cash flows, external borrowings, or both. We regularly review our capital structure and consider a variety of potential financing alternatives and planning strategies to ensure we have the proper liquidity available in the locations in which it is needed and to fund our existing stock buyback program with cash that has not been permanently reinvested outside the U.S. 
    
  Cash from operations could also be affected by various risks and uncertainties, including, but not limited to the risks detailed in Part I,   Item 1A   titled    Risk Factors  .  However, based on our current business plan and revenue prospects, we believe that our existing balances, our anticipated cash flows from operations and our available credit facility will be sufficient to meet our working capital and operating resource expenditure requirements for at least the next 12 months.  
    
  Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables, and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates, for which we have put in place foreign currency contracts as part of our risk management strategy. See Part II, Item 7A,  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk  for further discussion. 

2016 Form 10-K  61 

Table of Contents   

Contractual Obligations 
    
  The following table summarizes our significant financial contractual obligations at   January 31, 2016   and the effect such obligations are expected to have on our liquidity and cash flows in future periods. 

____________________  
           (1) 
    This table generally excludes amounts already recorded on the balance sheet as current liabilities, certain purchase obligations as discussed below, long term deferred revenue, and amounts related to income tax liabilities for uncertain tax positions, since we cannot predict with reasonable reliability the timing of cash settlements to the respective taxing authorities (see Note   4  ,    Income Taxes    to the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements). 
       
  Notes consist of the Senior Notes issued in December 2012 and June 2015. The 2012 Senior Notes consist of $  400.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   1.95%   senior notes due   December 15, 2017   notes and $  350.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.6%   senior notes due   December 15, 2022  . The 2015 Senior Notes consist of $  450.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   senior notes due   June 15, 2020   and $  300.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   4.375%   senior notes due   June 15, 2025  . 
    
  Operating lease obligations consist primarily of obligations for facilities, net of sublease income, computer equipment and other equipment leases. 
    
  Purchase obligations are contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services and are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding on Autodesk and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. Purchase obligations relate primarily to enterprise subscription agreements, IT infrastructure costs, and marketing costs. 
    
  Deferred compensation obligations relate to amounts held in a rabbi trust under our non-qualified deferred compensation plan. See Note   6  ,    Deferred Compensation  ,  in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding this plan. 
    
  Pension obligations relate to our obligations for pension plans outside of the U.S. See Note   14  ,    Retirement Benefit Plans  ,  in our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further information regarding these obligations. 
    
  Purchase orders or contracts for the purchase of supplies and other goods and services are not included in the table above. We are not able to determine the aggregate amount of such purchase orders that represent contractual obligations, as purchase orders may represent authorizations to purchase rather than binding agreements. Our purchase orders are based on our current procurement or development needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of supplies or other goods specifying minimum quantities or set prices that exceed our expected requirements for three months. In addition, we have certain software royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products.  
    
  The expected timing of payment of the obligations discussed above is estimated based on current information. Timing of payments and actual amounts paid may be different depending on the time of receipt of goods or services or changes to agreed-upon amounts for some obligations. 
    
  We provide indemnifications of varying scopes and certain guarantees, including limited product warranties. Historically, costs related to these warranties and indemnifications have not been significant, but because potential future costs are highly variable, we are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these guarantees on our future results of operations. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  62 

     Table of Contents   

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    
  Autodesk's stock repurchase program is largely to help offset the dilution from the issuance of stock under our employee stock plans and for such other purposes as may be in the interests of Autodesk and its stockholders, and has the effect of returning excess cash generated from our business to stockholders.   The number of shares acquired and the timing of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market and economic conditions, the number of employee stock option exercises and restricted stock unit issuances, the trading price of Autodesk common stock, cash on hand and available in the United States, cash requirements for acquisitions, and Company defined trading windows.  During the three and twelve months ended   January 31, 2016  , we repurchased   1.6 million   and   8.5 million   shares of our common stock, respectively. At   January 31, 2016  ,   6.3 million   shares remained available for repurchase under our current repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors. This program does not have a fixed expiration date. See Note   9  ,    Stockholders' Equity  ,  in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 
    
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
    
  As of   January 31, 2016  , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements other than operating leases, as defined in Item 303(a)(4)(ii) of Regulation S-K. 

2016 Form 10-K  63 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 7A.  
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK 
       
  Foreign currency exchange risk 
    
  Our revenue, earnings, cash flows, receivables, and payables are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. Our risk management strategy utilizes foreign currency contracts to manage our exposure to foreign currency volatility that exists as part of our ongoing business operations. We utilize cash flow hedge contracts to reduce the exchange rate impact on a portion of the net revenue or operating expense of certain anticipated transactions. In addition, we use balance sheet hedge contracts to reduce the exchange rate risk associated primarily with foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. As of   January 31, 2016   and   2015  , we had open cash flow and balance sheet hedge contracts with future settlements within one to twelve months. Contracts were primarily denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds, Canadian dollars, and Australian dollars. We do not enter into any foreign exchange derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. The notional amount of our option and forward contracts was $  374.0 million   and $  381.2 million   at   January 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  We use foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate impact on the net revenue and operating expenses of certain anticipated transactions. A sensitivity analysis performed on our hedging portfolio as of   January 31, 2016   indicated that a hypothetical 10% appreciation of the U.S. dollar from its value at   January 31, 2016   and   2015   would increase the fair value of our foreign currency contracts by   $33.3 million   and   $35.1 million  , respectively. A hypothetical 10% depreciation of the dollar from its value at   January 31, 2016   and   2015   would decrease the fair value of our foreign currency contracts by $  25.6 million   and $  16.5 million  , respectively. 
    
  Interest rate risk 
    
  Interest rate movements affect both the interest income we earn on our short term investments and the market value of certain longer term securities. At   January 31, 2016  , we had   $2,305.4 million   of cash equivalents and marketable securities, including   $897.9 million   classified as short-term marketable securities and   $532.3 million   classified as long-term marketable securities. If interest rates were to move up by 50 or 100 basis points over a twelve month period, the potential decline in fair value on our marketable securities would be   $5.5 million   or   $9.8 million  , respectively.  
    
  Other Market Risk 
    
  From time to time we make direct investments in privately held companies. The privately held companies in which we invest are considered inherently risky. The technologies and products these companies have under development are typically in the early stages and may never materialize, which could result in a loss of all or a substantial part of our initial investment in these companies. The evaluation of privately held companies is based on information that we request from these companies, which is not subject to the same disclosure regulations as U.S. publicly traded companies, and as such, the basis for these evaluations is subject to the timing and accuracy of the data received from these companies. See Note   2  , "  Financial Instruments  " for further discussion regarding our privately held investments. 

2016 Form 10-K  64 

       Table of Contents   

ITEM 8. 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
       
    AUTODESK, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
  (In millions, except per share data) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

2016 Form 10-K  65 

Table of Contents   

AUTODESK, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE (LOSS) INCOME 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  66 

       Table of Contents   

AUTODESK, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (In millions, except per share data) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

2016 Form 10-K  67 

Table of Contents   

AUTODESK, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  68 

       Table of Contents   

AUTODESK, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  EQUITY 
  (In millions) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

2016 Form 10-K  69 

Table of Contents   

AUTODESK, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  January 31, 2016    
  (Tables in millions of dollars, except per share data, unless otherwise indicated) 
    
    1  .       Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies    
    
    Business 
    
  Autodesk, Inc. ( Autodesk  or the  Company ) is a world leading design software and services company, offering customers productive business solutions through powerful technology products and services. The Company serves customers in the architecture, engineering, and construction; manufacturing; and digital media, consumer, and entertainment industries. The Company s sophisticated software products enable its customers to experience their ideas before they are real by allowing them to imagine, design, and create their ideas and to visualize, simulate, and analyze real-world performance early in the design process by creating digital prototypes. These capabilities allow Autodesk s customers to foster innovation, optimize and improve their designs, help save time and money, improve quality, and collaborate with others. Autodesk software products are sold globally, both directly to customers and through a network of resellers and distributors.  
    
  Principles of Consolidation 
    
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Autodesk and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.  
    
  Current Period Adjustments 
    
  Subsequent to furnishing preliminary financial statements on Form 8-K on February 25, 2016 for the three and twelve months ended January 31, 2016, Autodesk identified a   $4.5 million   tax adjustment associated with deemed foreign withholding taxes related to non-permanently reinvested earnings in foreign jurisdictions which have not yet repatriated resulting in changes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as reflected in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This non-cash adjustment resulted in an increase to GAAP diluted loss per share from   $(1.44)   to   $(1.46)   for the full fiscal year. 
    
  Prior Period Adjustments 
    
  Autodesk previously established a valuation allowance against the Company s deferred tax assets during the three months ended July 31, 2015. In the course of preparing the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the three and nine months ended October 31, 2015, Autodesk determined that it had understated income tax expense by   $33.1 million   for the three and six months ended July 31, 2015, primarily related to an error in the establishment of the valuation allowance, which had been understated at July 31, 2015. Autodesk performed the analysis required by Staff Accounting Bulletin 99,   Materiality  , to evaluate the materiality of the error, quantitatively and qualitatively, and concluded it was not material to the Company s Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements as of July 31, 2015 and for the three and six month periods ended July 31, 2015. However, in light of the significance of a correction of the error to the results for the three months ended October 31, 2015, Autodesk chose to correct the error by revising the previously reported results for the three and six months ended July 31, 2015, to include the additional   $33.1 million   of non-cash income tax expense associated with the establishment of the valuation allowance. See Note   16  , "  Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)  ," in the Notes to the Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for further discussion. 
    
  During the quarter ended April 30, 2015, Autodesk determined that it had not correctly accounted for certain liabilities primarily related to employee benefits and unclaimed property.  As a result, we recorded   $5.7 million   of additional operating expenses related to prior periods. As these adjustments were related to the correction of errors, Autodesk performed the analysis required by Staff Accounting Bulletin 99, Materiality, and Staff Accounting Bulletin 108,   Considering the Effects of Prior Year Misstatements When Quantifying Misstatements in Current Year Financial Statements  . Based on this analysis, Autodesk concluded that the effect of the errors was not material to the financial position, results of operations or cash flows of any prior fiscal year from both a quantitative and qualitative perspective and is not material to the full fiscal year 2016.  

2016 Form 10-K  70 

     Table of Contents   

Reclassifications  
    
  During the second quarter of fiscal 2015, Autodesk elected to present amortization of purchased customer relationships, trade names, patents, and user lists as a separate line item within operating expenses. As a result, amortization previously reflected in  General and Administrative  expense was reclassified to  Amortization of Purchased Intangibles" within Operating Expenses. These expenses have been reclassified in the Consolidated Statements of Operations for fiscal years   2015   and   2014   to conform to the current period presentation as follows: 

Use of Estimates 
    
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in Autodesk s consolidated financial statements and notes thereto. These estimates are based on information available as of the date of the consolidated financial statements. On a regular basis, management evaluates these estimates and assumptions. Actual results may differ materially from these estimates. 
    
  Examples of significant estimates and assumptions made by management involve the determination of the fair value of acquired assets and liabilities, goodwill, financial instruments, long-lived assets and other intangible assets, the realizability of deferred tax assets, and the fair value of stock awards. The Company also makes assumptions, judgments, and estimates in determining the accruals for uncertain tax positions, variable compensation, partner incentive programs, product returns reserves, allowances for doubtful accounts, asset retirement obligations, and legal contingencies.     
    
    Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions 
    
  The assets and liabilities of Autodesk s foreign subsidiaries are translated from their respective functional currencies into U.S. dollars at the rates in effect at the balance sheet date, and revenue and expense amounts are translated at exchange rates that approximate those rates in effect during the period in which the underlying transactions occur. Foreign currency translation adjustments are recorded as other comprehensive (loss) income. 
    
  Gains and losses realized from foreign currency transactions, those transactions denominated in currencies other than the foreign subsidiary s functional currency, are included in interest and other income, net. Monetary assets and liabilities are remeasured using foreign currency exchange rates at the end of the period, and non-monetary assets are remeasured based on historical exchange rates. 
    
  Derivative Financial Instruments 
    
  Under its risk management strategy, Autodesk uses derivative instruments to manage its short-term exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates which exist as part of ongoing business operations. Autodesk s general practice is to hedge a majority of transaction exposures denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds, Canadian dollars, and Australian dollars. These instruments have maturities between   one   to   12   months in the future. Autodesk does not enter into any derivative instruments for trading or speculative purposes. 
    
  The bank counterparties in all contracts expose Autodesk to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. However, to mitigate that risk, Autodesk only contracts with counterparties who meet the Company s minimum requirements under its counterparty risk assessment process. Autodesk monitors ratings, credit spreads, and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. Based on Autodesk s on-going assessment of counterparty risk, the Company will adjust its exposure to various counterparties. Autodesk generally enters into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty. However, Autodesk does not have any master netting arrangements in place with collateral features. 

2016 Form 10-K  71 

Table of Contents   

Autodesk accounts for its derivative instruments as either assets or liabilities on the balance sheet and carries them at fair value. Gains and losses resulting from changes in fair value are accounted for depending on the use of the derivative and whether it is designated and qualifies for hedge accounting. Derivatives that do not qualify for hedge accounting are adjusted to fair value through earnings. See Note   2  , "  Financial Instruments  " for information regarding Autodesk's hedging activities. 
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
    
  Autodesk considers all highly liquid investments with insignificant interest rate risk and remaining maturities of three months or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash equivalents are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. 
    
  Marketable Securities 
    
  Marketable securities are stated at fair value. Marketable securities maturing within one year that are not restricted are classified as current assets.  
    
  Autodesk determines the appropriate classification of its marketable securities at the time of purchase and re-evaluates such classification as of each balance sheet date. Autodesk carries all  available-for-sale securities  at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported in stockholders  equity until disposition or maturity. Autodesk carries all  trading securities  at fair value, with unrealized gains and losses, recorded in  Interest and other income, net  in the Company s Consolidated Statements of Operations. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific-identification method. 
    
  All of Autodesk s marketable securities are subject to a periodic impairment review. The Company recognizes an impairment charge when a decline in the fair value of its investments below the cost basis is judged to be other-than-temporary. Autodesk considers various factors in determining whether to recognize an impairment charge, including the length of time and extent to which the fair value has been less than Autodesk s cost basis, the financial condition and near-term prospects of the investee, and Autodesk s intent and ability to hold the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in the market value. For additional information, see  Concentration of Credit Risk  within this Note   1   and Note   2  ,    Financial Instruments  .  
    
    Accounts Receivable, Net 
    
  Accounts receivable, net, consisted of the following as of January 31: 

Allowances for uncollectible trade receivables are based upon historical loss patterns, the number of days that billings are past due, and an evaluation of the potential risk of loss associated with problem accounts. 
    
  The product returns reserves are based on historical experience of actual product returns, estimated channel inventory levels, the timing of new product introductions, channel sell-in for applicable markets, and other factors. 
    
  As part of the indirect channel model, Autodesk has a partner incentive program that uses quarterly attainment of monetary rewards to motivate distributors and resellers to achieve mutually agreed upon business goals in a specified time period. A portion of these incentives reduce license and other revenue in the current period. The remainder, which relates to incentives on our Subscription Program, is recorded as a reduction to deferred revenue in the period the subscription transaction is billed and subsequently recognized as a reduction to subscription revenue over the contract period. These incentive balances do not require significant assumptions or judgments. The reserves associated with the partner incentive program are treated on the balance sheet as either contra account receivable (when due to distributors and direct resellers) or accounts payable (when due to indirect resellers). 

2016 Form 10-K  72 

       Table of Contents   

Concentration of Credit Risk 
    
  Autodesk places its cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities in highly liquid instruments with, and in the custody of, diversified financial institutions globally with high credit ratings and limits the amounts invested with any one institution, type of security, and issuer. 
    
  Geographical concentrations of consolidated cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities held by Autodesk as of January 31:      

Autodesk s primary commercial banking relationship is with Citigroup Inc. and its global affiliates. Citibank, N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, is one of the lead lenders and an agent in the syndicate of Autodesk s $  400.0 million   line of credit facility. It is Autodesk s policy to limit the amounts invested with any one institution by type of security and issuer. 
    
  Autodesk s accounts receivable are derived from sales to a large number of resellers, distributors, and direct customers in the Americas; EMEA; and APAC geographies. Autodesk performs ongoing evaluations of these partners' financial condition and limits the amount of credit extended when deemed necessary, but generally does not require collateral from such parties. Total sales to the Company's largest distributor Tech Data Corporation, and its global affiliates ( Tech Data ), accounted for   25%  ,   25%  , and   24%   of Autodesk's net revenue for fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. The majority of the net revenue from sales to Tech Data relates to Autodesk's Platform Solutions and Emerging Business ("PSEB") segment and is for sales made outside of the United States. In addition, Tech Data accounted for   22%   of trade accounts receivable at both   January 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively.  
    
    Computer Equipment, Software, Furniture, and Leasehold Improvements, Net 
    
  Computer equipment, software, and furniture are depreciated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets, which range from   three   to   five   years. Leasehold improvements are amortized on a straight-line basis over the shorter of their estimated useful lives or the lease term. Depreciation expense was $  60.6 million   in fiscal   2016  , $  52.1 million   in fiscal   2015  , and $  47.2 million   in fiscal   2014  . 
    
  Computer equipment, software, furniture, leasehold improvements and the related accumulated depreciation at January 31 were as follows: 

Costs incurred for computer software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized for application development activities, if material, and immediately expensed for preliminary project activities and post-implementation activities. These capitalized costs are amortized over the software s expected useful life, which is generally   three   years.  

2016 Form 10-K  73 

Table of Contents   

Software Development Costs 
    
  Software development costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility are included in research and development expenses. Autodesk defines establishment of technological feasibility as the completion of a working model. Software development costs incurred subsequent to the establishment of technological feasibility through the period of general market availability of the products are capitalized and generally amortized over a three year period, if material. Autodesk had no material capitalized software development costs at   January 31, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  .  
    
    Other Intangible Assets, Net 
    
  Other intangible assets include developed technologies, customer relationships, trade names, patents, user lists, and the related accumulated amortization. These assets are shown as  Developed technologies, net  and as part of  Other assets  in the Consolidated Balance Sheet. The majority of Autodesk s other intangible assets are amortized to expense over the estimated economic life of the product, which ranges from   one   to   ten   years. Amortization expense for developed technologies, customer relationships, trade names, patents, and user lists was $  82.6 million   in fiscal   2016  , $  92.9 million   in fiscal   2015   and $  80.7 million   in fiscal   2014  . 
    
  Other intangible assets and related accumulated amortization at January 31 were as follows: 

_______________  
           (1)   
    Included in  Other assets  in the accompanying Condensed Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
              (2) 
    Includes the effects of foreign currency translation.  
       
  The weighted average amortization period for developed technologies, customer relationships, and trade names during fiscal   2016   was   4.2   years. Expected future amortization expense for developed technologies, customer relationships, trade names, patents, and user lists for each of the fiscal years ended thereafter is as follows: 

Goodwill 
    
  Goodwill consists of the excess of the consideration transferred over the fair value of net assets acquired in business combinations. Autodesk assigns goodwill to the reporting unit associated with each business combination, and tests goodwill for impairment annually in its fourth fiscal quarter or more often if circumstances indicate a potential impairment. For purposes of the goodwill impairment test, a reporting unit is an operating segment or one level below.  
    
  Autodesk has the option to perform an assessment of qualitative factors of impairment ( optional assessment ) prior to necessitating a two-step quantitative impairment test. Should the optional assessment be utilized for any given fiscal year, qualitative factors to consider include cost factors; financial performance; legal, regulatory, contractual, political, business, or other factors; entity specific factors; industry and market considerations, macroeconomic conditions, and other relevant events and factors affecting the reporting unit. If, after assessing the totality of events or circumstances, it is more likely than not that  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  74 

     Table of Contents   

the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying value, then performing the two-step impairment test is unnecessary. 
    
  Therefore, the two-step quantitative impairment test is necessary when either Autodesk does not utilize the optional assessment or, as a result of the optional assessment, it is not more likely than not that the fair value of the reporting unit is greater than its carrying value. In performing the two-step impairment test, Autodesk uses discounted cash flow models which include assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Variances in these assumptions could have a significant impact on Autodesk's conclusion as to whether goodwill is impaired, or the amount of any impairment charge. Impairment charges, if any, result from instances where the fair values of net assets associated with goodwill are less than their carrying values. As changes in business conditions and assumptions occur, Autodesk may be required to record impairment charges. The process of evaluating the potential impairment of goodwill is subjective and requires significant judgment at many points during the analysis. The value of Autodesk s goodwill could also be impacted by future adverse changes such as: (i) declines in Autodesk s actual financial results, (ii) a sustained decline in Autodesk s market capitalization, (iii) significant slowdown in the worldwide economy or the industries Autodesk serves, or (iv) changes in Autodesk s business strategy or internal financial forecast results. 
    
  For the annual impairment assessment in fiscal   2016  , Autodesk utilized the optional assessment for the following reporting units: Platform Solutions and Emerging Business ( PSEB ), Manufacturing ("MFG"), Architecture, Engineering, and Construction ("AEC"), and Media and Entertainment ( M E ). Based on a review of the qualitative factors described above, Autodesk determined that it was more likely than not that the fair value of each of the reporting units exceeded the carrying value. As a result, Autodesk concluded that performing the two-step impairment test was not necessary, and therefore the goodwill of the PSEB, MFG, AEC, and M E reporting units were not impaired during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016  .  
    
  For the Delcam reporting unit, Autodesk deemed the two-step impairment test was necessary and used a discounted cash flow model which included assumptions regarding projected cash flows. Based on this testing, Autodesk estimated fair value was   16%   in excess of the carrying value for the Delcam reporting unit and determined there was no impairment of goodwill during the year ended   January 31, 2016  . In addition, Autodesk did not recognize any goodwill impairment losses in fiscal   2015   or   2014  . 
    
  Estimating the fair value of the reporting units requires the use of estimates and significant judgments regarding future cash flows that are based on a number of factors including actual operating results, forecasted billings, revenue, and spend targets, discount rate assumptions, and long-term growth rate assumptions. The estimates and judgments described above could adversely change in future periods and Autodesk cannot provide absolute assurance that all of the targets will be achieved, which could lead to future impairment charges. 
    
  The change in the carrying amount of goodwill during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016   is as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    Delcam is a separate reporting unit within the Manufacturing ("MFG") reporting segment. 

2016 Form 10-K  75 

Table of Contents   

The change in the carrying amount of goodwill during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2015   is as follows: 

_______________  
           (1) 
    Delcam is a separate reporting unit within the Manufacturing ("MFG") reporting segment. 
       
  Purchase accounting adjustments reflect revisions made to the Company s preliminary purchase price allocations during fiscal   2016   and   2015  . 
    
  Impairment of Long-Lived Assets 
    
  At least annually or more frequently as circumstances dictate, Autodesk reviews its long-lived assets for impairment whenever impairment indicators exist.  Autodesk continually monitors events and changes in circumstances that could indicate the carrying amounts of its long-lived assets may not be recoverable. When such events or changes in circumstances occur, Autodesk assesses recoverability of these assets.  Recoverability is measured by comparison of the carrying amounts of the assets to the future undiscounted cash flows the assets are expected to generate.  If the long-lived assets are considered to be impaired, the impairment to be recognized is equal to the amount by which the carrying value of the assets exceeds its fair market value. Autodesk did not recognize any material impairments of long-lived assets during the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  In addition to the recoverability assessments, Autodesk routinely reviews the remaining estimated useful lives of its long-lived assets. Any reduction in the useful life assumption will result in increased depreciation and amortization expense in the quarter when such determinations are made, as well as in subsequent quarters. 
    
    Deferred Tax Assets 
    
  Deferred tax assets arise primarily from tax credits, net operating losses, and timing differences for reserves, accrued liabilities, stock options, deferred revenue, purchased technologies, and capitalized intangibles, partially offset by U.S. deferred tax liabilities on unremitted earnings from certain foreign subsidiaries, acquired intangibles, and valuation allowances against U.S. and foreign deferred tax assets. Autodesk performed a quarterly assessment of the recoverability of these net deferred tax assets and believe that we will generate sufficient future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to realize the net deferred tax assets. They are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to reverse. Valuation allowances are established when necessary to reduce gross deferred tax assets to the amount that is "more likely than not" to be realized. 

2016 Form 10-K  76 

       Table of Contents   

Revenue Recognition 
    
  Autodesk recognizes revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, delivery has occurred or services have been rendered, the price is fixed or determinable, and collection is probable.  
    
  For multiple element arrangements containing only software and software-related elements, Autodesk allocates the sales price among each of the deliverables using the residual method, under which revenue is allocated to undelivered elements based on their vendor-specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) of fair value. VSOE is the price charged when an element is sold separately or a price set by management with the relevant authority. If Autodesk does not have VSOE of an undelivered element, revenue recognition is deferred on the entire sales arrangement until all elements for which Autodesk does not have VSOE are delivered. If Autodesk does not have VSOE for undelivered maintenance or services, the revenue for the arrangement is recognized over the longest contractual service period in the arrangement. Revenue recognition for significant lines of business is discussed further below. 
    
  For multiple element arrangements involving non-software elements, including cloud subscription services, our revenue recognition policy is based upon the accounting guidance contained in ASC 605,   Revenue Recognition  . For these arrangements, Autodesk first allocates the total arrangement consideration based on the relative selling prices of the software group of elements as a whole and the non-software elements. Autodesk then further allocates consideration within the software group to the respective elements within that group using the residual method as described above. Autodesk exercises judgment and uses estimates in connection with the determination of the amount of revenue to be recognized in each accounting period. 
    
  Autodesk allocates the total arrangement consideration among the various elements based on a selling price hierarchy. The selling price for a deliverable is based on its VSOE if available, third-party evidence ("TPE") if VSOE is not available, or the best estimated selling price ("BESP") if neither VSOE nor TPE is available. BESP represents the price at which Autodesk would transact for the deliverable if it were sold regularly on a standalone basis. To establish BESP for those elements for which neither VSOE nor TPE are available, Autodesk performs a quantitative analysis of pricing data points for historical standalone transactions involving such elements for a twelve-month period. As part of this analysis, Autodesk monitors and evaluates the BESP against actual pricing to ensure that it continues to represent a reasonable estimate of the standalone selling price, considering several other external and internal factors including, but not limited to, pricing and discounting practices, contractually stated prices, the geographies in which Autodesk offers products and services, and the type of customer (i.e. distributor, value-added reseller, and direct end user, among others). Autodesk analyzes BESP at least annually or on a more frequent basis if a significant change in our business necessitates a more timely analysis, or if significant selling price variances are experienced. 
    
  In situations when Autodesk has multiple contracts with a single counterparty, Autodesk uses the guidance in ASC 985-605 to evaluate both the form and the substance of the arrangements to determine if they should be combined and accounted for as one arrangement or as separate arrangements. 
    
  Autodesk s assessment of likelihood of collection is also a critical element in determining the timing of revenue recognition. If collection is not probable, the revenue will be deferred until cash is received. 
    
  License and other revenue consists of two components: product license revenue and other revenue. Product license revenue includes software license revenue from the sale of perpetual licenses, term-based licenses from our desktop subscription and enterprise offerings, and product revenue for Creative Finishing. Other revenue includes revenue from consulting, training, Autodesk Developers Network and Creative Finishing customer support, and is recognized over time, as the services are performed. 
    
  Autodesk's Subscription revenue consists of two components: maintenance revenue for our software products and revenue for our cloud service offerings, including Autodesk 360. Autodesk's maintenance program provides our commercial and educational customers of perpetual products with a cost effective and predictable budgetary option to obtain the productivity benefits of our new releases and enhancements when and if released during the term of their contracts. Under Autodesk's maintenance program, customers are eligible to receive unspecified upgrades when and if available, downloadable training courses, and online support. Autodesk recognizes maintenance revenue ratably over the term of the maintenance agreement, which is generally between one and three years but can occasionally be as long as five years. Revenue for Autodesk's cloud service offerings is recognized ratably over the contract term commencing with the date Autodesk's service is made available to customers and all other revenue recognition criteria have been satisfied. 

2016 Form 10-K  77 

Table of Contents   

Taxes Collected from Customers 
    
  Autodesk nets taxes collected from customers against those remitted to government authorities in the consolidated financial statements. Accordingly, taxes collected from customers are not reported as revenue. 
    
  Shipping and Handling Costs 
    
  Shipping and handling costs are included in cost of revenue for all periods presented. 
    
    Stock-based Compensation Expense 
    
  The following table summarizes stock-based compensation expense for fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively, as follows: 

Autodesk determines the grant-date fair value of its share-based payment awards using a Black-Scholes Merton ("BSM") option pricing model or the quoted stock price on the date of grant, unless the awards are subject to market conditions, in which case Autodesk uses a binomial-lattice model (e.g., Monte Carlo simulation model). The Monte Carlo simulation model utilizes multiple input variables to estimate the probability that market conditions will be achieved. Autodesk uses the following assumptions to estimate the fair value of stock-based awards: 

Autodesk estimates expected volatility for stock-based awards based on the average of the following two measures. The first is a measure of historical volatility in the trading market for the Company s common stock, and the second is the implied volatility of traded forward call options to purchase shares of the Company s common stock. The expected volatility for PSUs subject to market conditions includes the expected volatility of Autodesk's peer companies within the S P Computer Software Select Index.  
    
  Autodesk estimates the expected life of stock-based awards using both exercise behavior and post-vesting termination behavior as well as consideration of outstanding options. 
    
  Autodesk did not pay cash dividends in fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , or   2014   and does not anticipate paying any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. Consequently, an expected dividend yield of zero is used in the BSM option pricing model and the Monte Carlo simulation model. 
    
  The risk-free interest rate used in the BSM option pricing model and the Monte Carlo simulation model for stock-based awards is the historical yield on U.S. Treasury securities with equivalent remaining lives. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  78 

     Table of Contents   

Autodesk recognizes expense only for the stock-based awards that are ultimately expected to vest. Therefore, Autodesk has developed an estimate of the number of awards expected to cancel prior to vesting ( forfeiture rate ). The forfeiture rate is estimated based on historical pre-vest cancellation experience and is applied to all stock-based awards. The Company estimates forfeitures at the time of grant and revises those estimates in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. 
    
    Advertising Expenses 
    
  Advertising costs are expensed as incurred. Total advertising expenses incurred were $  29.8 million   in fiscal   2016  , $  23.9 million   in fiscal   2015  , and $  15.6 million   in fiscal   2014  . 
    
    Net (Loss) Income Per Share 
    
  Basic net (loss) income per share is computed based on the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period, excluding stock options and restricted stock units. Diluted net (loss) income per share is computed based upon the weighted average shares of common shares outstanding for the period and potentially dilutive common shares, including the effect of stock options and restricted stock units under the treasury stock method. 
    
    Defined Benefit Pension Plans 
    
  The funded status of Autodesk's defined benefit pension plans is recognized in the Consolidated Balance Sheets. The funded status is measured as the difference between the fair value of plan assets and the projected benefit obligation for the fiscal years presented. The projected benefit obligation represents the actuarial present value of benefits expected to be paid upon retirement based on employee services already rendered and estimated future compensation levels. The fair value of plan assets represents the current market value of Autodesk's cumulative company and participant contributions made to the various plans in effect. 
    
  Net periodic benefit cost is recorded in the Consolidated Statements of Operations and includes service cost, interest cost, expected return on plan assets, amortization of prior service costs, and gains or losses previously recognized as a component of other comprehensive income. Certain events, such as changes in the employee base, plan amendments, and changes in actuarial assumptions may result in a change in the defined benefit obligation and the corresponding change to other comprehensive income.  
    
  Gains and losses and prior service costs not recognized as a component of net periodic benefit cost in the Consolidated Statements of Operations as they arise are recognized as a component of other comprehensive (loss) income in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive (Loss) Income. Those gains and losses and prior service costs are subsequently amortized as a component of net periodic benefit cost over the average remaining service lives of the plan participants using a corridor approach to determine the portion of gain or loss subject to amortization. 
    
  The measurement of projected benefit obligations and net periodic benefit cost is based on estimates and assumptions that reflect the terms of the plans and use participant-specific information such as compensation, age and years of services, as well as certain assumptions, including estimates of discount rates, expected return of plan assets, rate of compensation increases, interest rates, and mortality rates. 
    
    Accounting Standards in Fiscal   2016 
    
  With the exception of those discussed below, there have been no recent changes in accounting pronouncements issued by the FASB or adopted by the Company during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016  , that are of significance, or potential significance, to the Company.  
    
  Accounting Standards Adopted  
    
  Effective in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016, Autodesk elected to early adopt FASB's Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-17 ("ASU 2015-17") regarding ASC Topic 470 "Income Taxes: Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes." The amendments in ASU 2015-17 require deferred tax assets and liabilities, along with any related valuation allowances, to be classified as noncurrent on the consolidated balance sheet. The amendments for ASU-2015-17 were prospectively applied. Prior periods were not retrospectively adjusted and remain presented as current or non-current in accordance with the previous  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  79 

Table of Contents   

accounting guidance. Adoption of ASU 2015-17 did not have a material impact on Autodesk's consolidated financial statements.  
    
  Effective in the third quarter of fiscal 2016, Autodesk elected to early adopt FABS's Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-16 ("ASU 2015-16") regarding ASC Topic 805 "Business Combinations: Simplifying the Accounting for Measurement-Period Adjustments." The amendments in ASU 2015-16 eliminate the requirement to restate prior period financial statements for measurement period adjustments. The amendments also require that the cumulative impact of a measurement period adjustment (including the impact on prior periods) be recognized in the reporting period in which the adjustment is identified. The amendments for ASU-2015-16 were prospectively applied and did not have a material impact on Autodesk's consolidated financial statements.  
    
  Effective in the second quarter of fiscal 2016, Autodesk elected to early adopt FASB's Accounting Standards Update 2015-03 ( ASU 2015-03 ) regarding Subtopic 835-30  Interest - Imputation of Interest: Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs.  The amendments in ASU 2015-03 require that debt issuance costs related to a recognized debt liability be presented in the balance sheet as a direct deduction from the carrying amount of that debt liability, consistent with debt discounts. The standard requires retrospective application and represents a change in accounting principle. The adoption of ASU 2015-03 resulted in a   $4.1 million   retrospective reduction of both our other assets and long term notes payable, net, as of January 31, 2015. 
    
  Recently Issued Accounting Standards  
    
  In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-02 ("ASU 2016-02") regarding ASC Topic 842 "Leases." The amendments in this ASU require balance sheet recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for leases classified as operating leases, with an optional policy election to not recognize lease assets and lease liabilities for leases with a term of 12 months or less. The amendments also require new disclosures, including qualitative and quantitative requirements, providing additional information about the amounts recorded in the financial statements. ASU 2016-02 will be effective for Autodesk s fiscal year beginning February 1, 2019 unless Autodesk elects early adoption. The amendments require a modified retrospective approach with optional practical expedients. Autodesk is currently evaluating the accounting, transition, and disclosure requirements of the standard and cannot currently estimate the financial statement impact of adoption.  
    
  In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2016-01 ("ASU 2016-01") regarding ASC Topic 825-10 "Financial Instruments - Overall." The amendments address certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments, and require equity securities to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized through net income. The amendments also simplify the impairment assessment of equity investments without readily determinable fair values by requiring a qualitative assessment for impairment quarterly at each reporting period. The amendments in ASU 2016-01 are effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. An entity should apply the amendments by means of a cumulative-effect adjustment to the balance sheet as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption, with prospective adoption of the amendments related to equity securities without readily determinable fair values existing as of the date of adoption. Autodesk is currently evaluating the accounting, transition, and disclosure requirements of the standard and cannot currently estimate the financial statement impact of adoption. 
    
  In May 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-07 ("ASU 2015-07") regarding ASC Topic 820 "Fair Value Measurement: Disclosures for Investments in Certain Entities That Calculate Net Asset Value per Share (or Its Equivalent)." The amendments in ASU 2015-07 remove the requirement to categorize within the fair value hierarchy all investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. The amendments also limit certain disclosures to investments for which the entity has elected to measure at fair value using the net asset value per share practical expedient. The amendments in ASU 2015-07 are effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption is permitted. The amendments should be applied retrospectively by removing from the fair value hierarchy any investments for which fair value is measured using the net asset value per share practical expedient. Autodesk does not expect ASU 2015-07 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
    
  In April 2015, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update No. 2015-05 ("ASU 2015-05") regarding Subtopic 350-40,  Intangibles - Goodwill and Other - Internal-Use Software: Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement.  The amendments in this ASU provide guidance about whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license. If a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license, the customer should account for the software license element of the arrangement consistent with other software licenses. If a cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the customer should account for the arrangement as a service contract. The amendments in ASU 2015-05 are effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2015. Early adoption is permitted. The amendments in  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  80 

     Table of Contents   

ASU 2015-05 may be applied either prospectively to all arrangements entered into or materially modified after the effective date or retrospectively. Autodesk does not expect ASU 2015-05 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements.  
    
  In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2014-09 ("ASU 2014-09") regarding ASC Topic 606  Revenue from Contracts with Customers.  ASU 2014-09 provides principles for recognizing revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14 to defer the effective date by one year with early adoption permitted as of the original effective date.  ASU 2014-09 will be effective for Autodesk s fiscal year beginning February 1, 2018 unless we elect the earlier date of February 1, 2017. In addition, the FASB issued ASU 2016-08 in March 2016, to help provide interpretive clarifications on the new guidance in ASC Topic 606.  Autodesk is currently evaluating the accounting, transition, and disclosure requirements of the standard and cannot currently estimate the financial statement impact of adoption.  

2016 Form 10-K  81 

Table of Contents   

2  .       Financial Instruments    
    
  The following tables summarize the Company's financial instruments' amortized cost, gross unrealized gains, gross unrealized losses, and fair value by significant investment category as of January 31,   2016   and   2015  .  

____________________  
           (1) 
    Included in  Cash and cash equivalents  in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
              (2) 
    Considered "available for sale" and included in "Other assets" in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
              (3) 
    Included in  Prepaid expenses and other current assets,  "Other assets," or  Other accrued liabilities  in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

2016 Form 10-K  82 

       Table of Contents   

____________________  
           (1) 
    Included in  Cash and cash equivalents  in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
              (2) 
    Considered "available for sale" securities and included in "Other assets" in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets.  
              (3) 
    Included in  Prepaid expenses and other current assets,  "Other assets," or  Other accrued liabilities  in the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
       
  Autodesk classifies its marketable securities as either short-term or long-term based on each instrument s underlying contractual maturity date. Marketable securities with remaining maturities of less than   12 months   are classified as short-term and marketable securities with remaining maturities greater than   12 months   are classified as long-term. Autodesk may sell certain of its marketable securities prior to their stated maturities for strategic purposes or in anticipation of credit deterioration.  
    
  Autodesk applies fair value accounting for certain financial assets and liabilities, which consist of cash equivalents, marketable securities, and other financial instruments, on a recurring basis. The Company defines fair value as the price that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. Fair value is estimated by applying the following hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement: (Level 1) observable inputs such as quoted prices in active markets; (Level 2) inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities, quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in inactive markets, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities; and (Level 3) unobservable inputs for which there is little or no market data, which require Autodesk to develop its own assumptions. When determining fair value, Autodesk uses observable market data and relies on unobservable inputs only when observable market data is not available. There have been no transfers between fair value measurement levels during the year ended   January 31, 2016  . 
    
  Autodesk's cash equivalents, marketable securities, and financial instruments are primarily classified within Level 1 or Level 2 of the fair value hierarchy. Autodesk values it's available for sale securities on pricing from pricing vendors, who may use quoted prices in active markets for identical assets (Level 1) or inputs other than quoted prices that are observable either  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  83 

Table of Contents   

directly or indirectly in determining fair value (Level 2). Autodesk's Level 2 securities are valued primarily using observable inputs other than quoted prices in active markets for identical assets and liabilities. Autodesk's Level 3 securities consist of investments held in auction rate securities, convertible debt securities, and derivative contracts which are valued using probability weighted discounted cash flow models and some of the inputs to the models are unobservable in the market. 
    
  A reconciliation of the change in Autodesk s Level 3 items for the fiscal years ended January 31,   2016   and   2015   was as follows: 

The following table summarizes the estimated fair value of Autodesk's  available-for-sale securities  classified by the contractual maturity date of the security: 

As of January 31,   2016   and   2015  , Autodesk did not have any material securities in a continuous unrealized loss position for greater than twelve months. 
       
  As of January 31,   2016   and   2015   Autodesk had   $104.3 million   and $  52.6 million  , respectively, in direct investments of privately held companies accounted for under the cost method. The increase from fiscal   2015   was primarily due to an approximately   $27.4 million   investment in FIT AG that was entered into simultaneously with the netfabb GmbH acquisition. Refer to Note   5  . "  Acquisitions  " for further discussion regarding the acquisition and investment. The privately held investments are periodically assessed for other-than-temporary impairment. If Autodesk determines that an other-than-temporary impairment has occurred, Autodesk writes down the investment to its estimated fair value. Autodesk estimates fair value of its cost method investments considering available information such as pricing in recent rounds of financing, current cash positions, earnings and cash flow forecasts, recent operational performance, and any other readily available market data.  
    
  During fiscal   2016  , Autodesk recorded   $0.2 million   in other-than-temporary impairment on its privately held equity and debt investments. During fiscal   2015  , Autodesk recorded   $19.2 million   other-than-temporary impairment on its privately held equity and debt investments. The impairment expense was recorded in    Interest and other expense, net    on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations. 

2016 Form 10-K  84 

       Table of Contents   

The sales or settlement of  available-for-sale securities  in fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   resulted in a   gain   of $  0.1 million  , a   gain   of $  0.7 million  , and a   loss   of   $0.2 million  , respectively. The losses and gains were recorded in "  Interest and other expense, net  " on the Company's Consolidated Statement of Operations. 
    
  Proceeds from the sale and maturity of marketable securities for fiscal   2016   and fiscal   2015   were   $1.7 billion   and   $1.2 billion  , respectively. 
    
  Derivative Financial Instruments 
    
  Under its risk management strategy, Autodesk uses derivative instruments to manage its short-term exposures to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates that exist as part of ongoing business operations. Autodesk's general practice is to hedge a portion of transaction exposures denominated in euros, Japanese yen, Swiss francs, British pounds, Canadian dollars and Australian dollars. These instruments have maturities between one to twelve months in the future. Autodesk does not enter into derivative instrument transactions for trading or speculative purposes.  
    
  The bank counterparties to the derivative contracts potentially expose Autodesk to credit-related losses in the event of their nonperformance. However, to mitigate that risk, Autodesk only contracts with counterparties who meet the Company's minimum requirements under its counterparty risk assessment process. Autodesk monitors ratings, credit spreads, and potential downgrades on at least a quarterly basis. Based on Autodesk's on-going assessment of counterparty risk, the Company will adjust its exposure to various counterparties. Autodesk generally enters into master netting arrangements, which reduce credit risk by permitting net settlement of transactions with the same counterparty.  However, Autodesk does not have any master netting arrangements in place with collateral features. 
    
  Foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges  
    
  Autodesk uses foreign currency contracts to reduce the exchange rate impact on a portion of the net revenue or operating expense of certain anticipated transactions. These contracts are designated and documented as cash flow hedges. The effectiveness of the cash flow hedge contracts is assessed quarterly using regression analysis as well as other timing and probability criteria. To receive cash flow hedge accounting treatment, all hedging relationships are formally documented at the inception of the hedge and the hedges are expected to be highly effective in offsetting changes to future cash flows on hedged transactions. The gross gains and losses on these hedges are included in    Accumulated other comprehensive loss    and are reclassified into earnings at the time the forecasted revenue or expense is recognized. In the event the underlying forecasted transaction does not occur, or it becomes probable that it will not occur, Autodesk reclassifies the gain or loss on the related cash flow hedge from    Accumulated other comprehensive loss    to    Interest and other expense, net    in the Company's Consolidated Financial Statements at that time.  
    
  The net notional amount of these contracts are presented net settled and were $  142.4 million   at   January 31, 2016   and $  336.6 million   at   January 31, 2015  . Outstanding contracts are recognized as either assets or liabilities on the Consolidated Balance Sheet at fair value. The majority of the net gain of $  15.7 million   remaining in    Accumulated other comprehensive loss    as of   January 31, 2016   is expected to be recognized into earnings within the next twelve months. 
    
  Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments  
    
  Autodesk uses foreign currency contracts which are not designated as hedging instruments to reduce the exchange rate risk associated primarily with foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. These forward contracts are marked-to-market at the end of each fiscal quarter with gains and losses recognized as    Interest and other expense, net  .  These derivative instruments do not subject the Company to material balance sheet risk due to exchange rate movements because gains and losses on these derivative instruments are intended to offset the gains or losses resulting from the settlement of the underlying foreign currency denominated receivables and payables. The net notional amounts of these foreign currency contracts are presented net settled and were $  231.6 million   at   January 31, 2016   and $  44.6 million   at   January 31, 2015  .  
    
  From time to time and consistent with its risk management policy, Autodesk also uses derivative instruments to hedge its economic exposure related to committed, in-process acquisitions priced in foreign currency.  Such derivatives do not qualify for hedge accounting and are marked-to-market through earnings, with any gain or loss reflected immediately in    Interest and other expense, net  ,  in each period.  
    
  In addition to these foreign currency contracts, Autodesk holds derivative instruments issued by privately held companies, which are not designated as hedging instruments. These derivatives consist of certain conversion options on the convertible debt  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  85 

Table of Contents   

securities held by Autodesk and an option to acquire a privately held company. These derivatives are recorded at fair value as of each balance sheet date and are recorded in  Other assets.  Changes in the fair values of these instruments are recognized in income as    Interest and other expense, net  .  
    
  Fair Value of Derivative Instruments: 
    
  The fair value of derivative instruments in Autodesk s Consolidated Balance Sheets were as follows as of   January 31, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  : 
                                   
    Balance Sheet Location 
      
    Fair Value at 
        
    January 31, 2016 
      
    January 31, 2015 
      Derivative Assets 

Foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 
    Prepaid expenses and other current assets (1) 
      
    $ 
    3.4 

$ 
    20.4 
      
      Derivatives not designated as hedging instruments 
    Prepaid expenses and other current assets and Other assets 
      
    4.9 

0.9 
      
      Total derivative assets 

$ 
    8.3 

$ 
    21.3 
      
      Derivative Liabilities 

Foreign currency contracts designated as cash flow hedges 
    Other accrued liabilities (2) 
      
    $ 
    3.4 

$ 
    5.4 
      
      Derivatives not designated as hedging instrument 
    Other accrued liabilities 
      
    3.0 

Total derivative liabilities 

$ 
    6.4 

$ 
    5.4 

_______________ 
      
  The effects of derivatives designated as hedging instruments on Autodesk s Consolidated Statements of Operations were as follows for the fiscal years ended January 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively (amounts presented include any income tax effects): 

2016 Form 10-K  86 

       Table of Contents   

The effects of derivatives not designated as hedging instruments on Autodesk s Consolidated Statements of Operations were as follows for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively (amounts presented include any income tax effects): 

3  .       Employee and Director Stock Plans    
    
  Stock Plans 
    
  As of   January 31, 2016  , Autodesk maintained   two   active stock plans for the purpose of granting equity awards to employees and to non-employee members of Autodesk s Board of Directors: the 2012 Employee Stock Plan (as amended, the  2012 Employee Plan ), which is available only to employees, and the Autodesk 2012 Outside Directors  Stock Plan ( 2012 Directors' Plan ), which is available only to non-employee directors. Additionally, there are   two   expired or terminated plans with options outstanding. The exercise price of all stock options granted under these plans was equal to the fair market value of the stock on the grant date. 
    
  The 2012 Employee Plan was approved by Autodesk's stockholders and became effective on   January 6, 2012  . On June 10, 2015, Autodesk's stockholders approved amendments to the 2012 Employee Plan, which increased the number of shares reserved for issuance under the plan by   12.5 million   shares. The 2012 Employee Plan replaced the 2008 Employee Stock Plan, as amended ("2008 Plan"), and no further equity awards may be granted under the 2008 Plan. The 2012 Employee Plan reserves up to   45.1 million   shares which includes   39.1 million   shares reserved under the 2012 Employee Plan, as well as up to   6.0 million   shares forfeited under certain prior employee stock plans during the life of the 2012 Employee Plan. The 2012 Employee Plan permits the grant of stock options, restricted stock units, and restricted stock awards. Each restricted stock unit or restricted stock award granted will be counted against the shares authorized for issuance under the 2012 Employee Plan as   1.79   shares. If a granted option, restricted stock unit, or restricted stock award expires or becomes unexercisable for any reason, the unpurchased or forfeited shares that were granted may be returned to the 2012 Employee Plan and may become available for future grant under the 2012 Employee Plan. As of   January 31, 2016  ,   29.2 million   shares subject to options or restricted stock awards have been granted under the 2012 Employee Plan. Options and restricted stock that were granted under the 2012 plan vest over periods ranging from   immediately upon grant   to   over a three year period   and options expire   10   years from the date of grant. The 2012 Employee Plan will expire on   June 30, 2022  . At   January 31, 2016  ,   18.6 million   shares were available for future issuance under the 2012 Employee Plan.  
    
  The 2012 Director's Plan was approved by Autodesk's stockholders and became effective on   January 6, 2012  . The 2012 Directors' Plan replaced the 2010 Outside Directors' Stock Plan, as amended ("2010 Plan"). The 2012 Directors' Plan permits the grant of stock options, restricted stock units, and restricted stock awards to non-employee members of Autodesk s Board of Directors. Each restricted stock unit or restricted stock award granted will be counted against the shares authorized for issuance under the 2012 Directors' Plan as   2.11   shares. As of   January 31, 2016  ,   0.7 million   shares subject to restricted stock unit awards have been granted under the 2012 Directors' Plan. Restricted stock units that were granted under the 2012 Outside Directors' Plan vest over   one   to   three   years from the date of grant. On March 12, 2015, the Board reduced the number of shares reserved for issuance under the 2012 Directors' Plan by   0.9 million   shares, so that   1.7 million   shares are now reserved for issuance under the 2012 Directors' Plan. The 2012 Directors' Plan will expire on   June 30, 2022  . At   January 31, 2016  ,   1.0 million   shares were available for future issuance under the 2012 Director's Plan.  
    
  The following sections summarize activity under Autodesk s stock plans. 

2016 Form 10-K  87 

Table of Contents   

Stock Options: 
    
  A summary of stock option activity for the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016   is as follows: 

_______________ 
            (2) 
    Represents the total pre-tax intrinsic value, based on Autodesk s closing stock price of   $46.82   per share as of   January 31, 2016  , which would have been received by the option holders had all option holders exercised their options as of that date. 
       
  As of   January 31, 2016  , compensation cost related to stock options has been fully recognized. 
    
  The following table summarizes information about the pre-tax intrinsic value of options exercised during the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  :  

(1) 
    The intrinsic value of options exercised is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the option and the market value of the stock on the date of exercise. 
       
  The following table summarizes information about options vested and exercisable, and outstanding at   January 31, 2016  :    

These options will expire if not exercised at specific dates ranging through   September 2022  .  

2016 Form 10-K  88 

     Table of Contents   

Restricted Stock: 
    
  A summary of restricted stock unit activity for the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016   is as follows: 

_______________ 
     
  For the restricted stock units granted during fiscal years ended January 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , the weighted average grant date fair value was   $52.53  , $  54.17  , and $  42.37  , respectively. The fair value of the shares vested during fiscal years ended January 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   was   $193.3 million  ,   $147.8 million  , and   $87.0 million  , respectively.  
    
  During the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016  , Autodesk granted   3.6 million   restricted stock units. The restricted stock units vest over periods ranging from immediately upon grant to a pre-determined date that is typically within   three   years from the date of grant. Restricted stock units are not considered outstanding stock at the time of grant, as the holders of these units are not entitled to any of the rights of a stockholder, including voting rights. The fair value of the restricted stock units is expensed ratably over the vesting period. Autodesk recorded stock-based compensation expense related to restricted stock units of $  146.4 million  , $  118.9 million  , and $  74.9 million   during fiscal years ended January 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. As of January 31,   2016  , total compensation cost not yet recognized of $  248.2 million   related to non-vested awards, is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   1.8   years. At January 31,   2016  , the number of restricted stock units granted but unvested was   6.9 million  . 
    
  During the fiscal year ended January 31,   2016  , Autodesk granted   0.4 million   performance stock units ("PSUs") for which the ultimate number of shares earned is determined based on the achievement of performance criteria at the end of the stated performance period. The performance criteria are based upon billings and subscriptions goals adopted by the Compensation and Human Resource Committee (the  Annual Financial Results ), as well as total stockholder return compared against the S P Computer Software Select Index ( Relative TSR ). Each PSU covers a three year period:  

Up to one third of the PSU may vest following year one depending upon the achievement of Annual Financial Results for year one as well as 1 year Relative TSR (covering year one). 

Up to one third of the PSU may vest following year two depending upon the achievement of Annual Financial Results for year two as well as 2 year Relative TSR (covering years one and two). 

Up to one third of the PSU may vest following year three depending upon the achievement of Annual Financial Results for year three as well as 3 year Relative TSR (covering years one, two, and three). 
       
  PSUs are not considered outstanding stock at the time of grant, as the holders of these units are not entitled to any of the rights of a stockholder, including voting rights. Autodesk has determined the grant-date fair value for these awards using a Monte Carlo simulation model since the awards are subject to a market condition. The fair value of the performance restricted stock units is expensed using the accelerated attribution method over the vesting period. Autodesk recorded stock-based compensation expense related to PSUs of $  23.2 million  ,   $17.5 million  , and   $8.7 million   during fiscal years ended January 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   respectively. As of January 31,   2016  , total compensation cost not yet recognized of $  3.6 million   related to non-vested PSUs, is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   0.8   years. At January 31,   2016  , the number of PSUs granted but unvested was   0.8 million  . 

2016 Form 10-K  89 

Table of Contents   

1998 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan ( ESP Plan ) 
    
  Under Autodesk s ESP Plan, which was approved by stockholders in 1998, eligible employees may purchase shares of Autodesk s common stock at their discretion using up to   15%   of their eligible compensation subject to certain limitations, at not less than   85%   of fair market value as defined in the ESP Plan. At   January 31, 2016  , a total of   43.3 million   shares were available for future issuance. This amount automatically increases on the first trading day of each fiscal year by an amount equal to the lesser of   10.0 million   shares or   2%   of the total of (1) outstanding shares plus (2) any shares repurchased by Autodesk during the prior fiscal year. Under the ESP Plan, the Company issues shares on the first trading day following March 31 and September 30 of each fiscal year. The ESP Plan expires during fiscal 2018. 
    
  Autodesk issued   2.1 million   shares under the ESP Plan at an average price of $  36.29   per share in fiscal   2016  ,   2.1 million   shares at an average price of $  33.91   per share in fiscal   2015  , and   2.9 million   shares at an average price of $  22.61   per share in fiscal   2014  . The weighted average grant date fair value of awards granted under the ESP Plan during fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , calculated as of the award grant date using the BSM option pricing model, was $  11.85  , $  15.14  , and $  11.80   per share, respectively. Autodesk recorded $  27.1 million  , $  23.9 million  , and $  22.9 million   of compensation expense associated with the ESP Plan in fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
    
  The following table summarizes the number of outstanding options granted to employees and directors, as well as the number of securities remaining available for future issuance under these plans as of   January 31, 2016  : 
                                     
    (a) 
      
    (b) 
      
    (c) 
      
      Plan category 
    Number of securities to be issued upon exercise of outstanding options 
      
    Weighted-average exercise price of outstanding options 
      
    Number of securities remaining available for future issuance under equity compensation plans (excluding securities reflected in column (a)) (in millions) 
      
      Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
    9.3 

$ 
    37.06 

62.9 
      
    (1) 
      Total 
    9.3 

$ 
    37.06 

62.9 

____________________  
           (1) 
    Included in this amount are   43.3 million   securities available for future issuance under Autodesk s ESP Plan. 
       
    4  .       Income Taxes 
    
  The provision for income taxes consists of the following: 

Pursuant to accounting standards related to stock-based compensation, the Company has unrecorded excess stock option tax benefits of $  233.8 million   as of January 31,   2016  . These amounts will be credited to additional paid-in-capital when such amounts reduce cash taxes payable. Foreign pretax income was $  218.2 million   in fiscal   2016  , $  302.5 million   in fiscal   2015  , and $  380.5 million   in fiscal   2014  . 

2016 Form 10-K  90 

     Table of Contents   

The differences between the U.S. statutory rate and the aggregate income tax provision are as follows: 

Autodesk's tax expense was increased by   $345.0 million   during fiscal 2016 for valuation allowances reducing the Company's U.S. federal and state deferred tax assets to the amount more likely than not to be realized. The effective tax rate impact includes valuation allowances against the deferred tax assets that existed at the beginning of fiscal 2016, and valuation allowances to offset tax attributes generated during fiscal 2016.  
    
  The Protecting Americans from Tax Hikes (PATH) Act of 2015 enacted on December 18, 2015 extended and made permanent the federal R D tax credit. As a result, our income tax provision for Fiscal 2016 includes a tax benefit that reduced our effective annual tax rate. We recorded federal R D tax benefits of   $9.4 million  ,   $7.2 million   and   $8.8 million   during fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. As of   January 31, 2016  , the deferred tax asset balances for U.S federal and state R D tax credits were offset by a valuation allowance. 
    
  Significant components of Autodesk s deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: 

The valuation allowance increased by $  327.2 million  , $  3.6 million  , and $  15.9 million   in fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. The fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   changes in valuation allowance were primarily related to U.S. and Canadian  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  91 

Table of Contents   

deferred taxes. Autodesk recorded a   $230.8 million   valuation allowance against the Company's U.S. federal and remaining state deferred tax assets recorded in the second quarter of fiscal 2016. Autodesk regularly assesses the need for a valuation allowance against its deferred tax assets. In making that assessment, Autodesk considers both positive and negative evidence, whether it is more likely than not that some or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. In evaluating the need for a valuation allowance, Autodesk considered recent cumulative losses in the United States arising from the Company's business model transition as a significant piece of negative evidence and determined that it was not more likely than not that the federal and remaining state deferred tax assets would be realized. As Autodesk continually strives to optimize our overall business model, tax planning strategies may become feasible and prudent allowing us to realize many of the deferred tax assets which are offset by a valuation allowance; therefore, Autodesk will continue to evaluate the realizability of our net deferred tax assets each quarter, both in the US and in foreign jurisdictions, based on all available evidence, both positive and negative. 
    
  Autodesk provides U.S. income taxes on the earnings of foreign subsidiaries, except to the extent subsidiaries' earnings are considered permanently reinvested outside the U.S. As of January 31,   2016  , the cumulative amount of earnings upon which U.S. income taxes have not been provided was $  1,942.2 million  . The unrecognized deferred tax liability for these earnings was approximately $  544.3 million  . 
    
  Realization of foreign non-current net deferred tax assets of $  9.2 million   is dependent upon the company's ability to generate future taxable income in appropriate tax jurisdictions to obtain benefit from the reversal of temporary differences, net operating loss carryforwards and tax credits. The amount of deferred tax assets considered realizable is subject to adjustment in future periods if estimates of future taxable income are reduced and Autodesk then determines that it is not more likely than not to realize such deferred tax assets. 
    
  As of   January 31, 2016  , Autodesk had $  222.7 million   of cumulative federal tax loss carryforwards and $  258.9 million   of cumulative state tax loss carryforwards, which may be available to reduce future income tax liabilities in certain jurisdictions. These federal and state tax loss carryforwards will expire beginning fiscal   2019   through fiscal   2037   and fiscal   2019   through fiscal   2037  , respectively. Autodesk also had   $6.0 million   of cumulative UK tax loss carryforwards, which may be available to reduce future income tax liabilities indefinitely. Autodesk had   $6.8 million   of cumulative federal and state capital loss carryforwards as of   January 31, 2016   which are available to offset future capital gains through fiscal   2019  . 
    
  As of   January 31, 2016  , Autodesk had $  116.2 million   of cumulative federal research tax credit carryforwards, $  60.9 million   of cumulative California state research tax credit carryforwards, and $  50.4 million   of cumulative Canadian federal tax credit carryforwards, which may be available to reduce future income tax liabilities in the respective jurisdictions. The federal tax credit carryforwards will expire beginning fiscal   2021   through fiscal   2037  , the state credit carryforwards may reduce future California income tax liabilities indefinitely, and the Canadian tax credit carryforwards will expire beginning fiscal   2027   through fiscal   2037  . Autodesk also has $  185.4 million   of cumulative foreign tax credit carryforwards, which may be available to reduce future U. S. tax liabilities. The foreign tax credit will expire beginning fiscal   2019   through fiscal   2027  . 
    
  Utilization of net operating losses and tax credits may be subject to an annual limitation due to ownership change limitations provided in the Internal Revenue Code and similar state provisions. This annual limitation may result in the expiration of net operating losses and credits before utilization. 
    
  As a result of certain business and employment actions and capital investments undertaken by Autodesk, income earned in certain Europe and Asia Pacific countries is subject to reduced tax rates through fiscal   2016 and 2020  , respectively with extensions available with incremental business and employment actions. We have   no   net income tax benefits attributable to the tax status of these business arrangements in fiscal   2016  , compared to $  1.2 million   ($  0.01   basic net income per share) in fiscal   2015  , and   $9.7 million   ($  0.04   basic net income per share) in fiscal   2014  . The income tax benefits were offset by accruals of U.S. income taxes on undistributed earnings, among other factors. 
    
  As of   January 31, 2016  , the company had $  254.3 million   of gross unrecognized tax benefits, of which $  236.8 million   would impact the effective tax rate, if recognized. However, this rate impact would be offset to the extent that recognition of unrecognized tax benefits currently presented as a reduction of deferred tax assets would increase the valuation allowance. 
    
  It is possible that the amount of unrecognized tax benefits will change in the next twelve months; however an estimate of the range of the possible change cannot be made at this time. 

2016 Form 10-K  92 

     Table of Contents   

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of the gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

It is the company's continuing practice to recognize interest and/or penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. Autodesk had $  3.3 million  , $  2.0 million  , and $  2.8 million  , net of tax benefit, accrued for interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as of   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. 
    
  Autodesk and its subsidiaries are subject to income tax in the United States as well as numerous state and foreign jurisdictions. Autodesk's U.S. and state income tax returns for fiscal year   2003   through fiscal year   2016   remain open to examination. In addition, Autodesk files tax returns in multiple foreign taxing jurisdictions with open tax years ranging from fiscal year   2004   to   2016  . 
    
    5  .       Acquisitions    
    
  During the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , Autodesk completed the business combinations and technology purchases described below. The results of operations for the following acquisitions are included in the accompanying   Consolidated Statement of Operations   since their respective acquisition dates. Pro forma results of operations have not been presented because the effects of the following acquisitions, individually and in the aggregate, were not material to Autodesk's Consolidated Financial Statements.  
    
  For acquisitions accounted for as business combinations, Autodesk recorded the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values at the date of acquisition. The fair values assigned to the identifiable intangible assets acquired were based on estimates and assumptions determined by management. Autodesk recorded the excess of consideration transferred over the aggregate fair values as goodwill.  
    
  Fiscal   2016   Acquisitions 
    
  On November 12, 2015, Autodesk closed a share purchase agreement with FIT AG ( FIT ) to acquire all of the outstanding shares of netfabb GmbH ("netfabb") for approximately   $42.5 million   cash consideration. Autodesk simultaneously entered into an investment agreement with FIT to invest approximately   $27.4 million   cash to acquire an equity interest in FIT. netfabb is a German-based provider of industrial grade additive manufacturing software solutions supporting most major 3D printers. FIT is a German-based provider of rapid prototyping and additive design and manufacturing services. The acquisition of netfabb is expected to provide Autodesk with software solutions that will reduce production costs and increase efficiency in 3D printing and additive manufacturing.  netfabb will be integrated into Autodesk's PSEB segment. The amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for U.S. income tax purposes is   $29.8 million  . 
    
  During the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016  , Autodesk also completed several other business combinations and technology acquisitions for total cash consideration of   $106.8 million  . These business combinations and technology acquisitions were not material individually or in aggregate to Autodesk's Consolidated Financial Statements.  

2016 Form 10-K  93 

Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by major class for each of the business combinations and technology acquisitions completed during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016  : 

For netfabb and certain other business combinations, the allocation of purchase price consideration to certain assets and liabilities is not yet finalized. Autodesk's estimates and assumptions are subject to change within the measurement period (up to one year from the acquisition date). For netfabb, the primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized are amounts for tax assets and liabilities, pending finalization of estimates and assumptions in respect of certain tax aspects of the transaction and residual goodwill, as well as pending finalization of the valuation of certain intangible assets accounted for as part of the business combination. For certain other business combinations, the primary areas of the preliminary purchase price allocation that are not yet finalized are amounts for tax assets and liabilities, pending finalization of estimates and assumptions in respect of certain tax aspects of the transaction and residual goodwill. 
    
  Fiscal   2015   Acquisitions    
    
  On June 27, 2014, Autodesk acquired Shotgun Software, Inc. ( Shotgun ) for total consideration of   $54.5 million  , of which $  51.2 million   was cash consideration. Prior to acquiring Shotgun, Autodesk had a convertible debt investment in the company with an acquisition-date fair value of $  3.3 million   using a market approach to value the investment. Shotgun was a privately-owned company that provided a cloud-based production management solution that enabled digital studios to track, schedule, review, and collaborate on projects and images. Shotgun has been integrated into, and the related goodwill was assigned to, Autodesk's M E segment. Goodwill is not expected to be deductible for U.S. income tax purposes.  
    
  On May 29, 2014, Autodesk acquired all the outstanding shares of Within Technologies Limited ("Within Technologies ) for total cash consideration of   $88.0 million  . Autodesk used its non-U.S.-based cash for the transaction. Within Technologies is a United Kingdom based developer of design and simulation software for next generation manufacturing processes.  The Within Technologies acquisition is expected to accelerate Autodesk s development of tools and technologies for advanced manufacturing.  Within Technologies has been integrated into Autodesk s PSEB reportable segment. The amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for U.S. income tax purposes is $  78.9 million  . 
    
  On February 6, 2014, Autodesk acquired the entire issued and to be issued share capital of Delcam plc ( Delcam ), for   $284.6 million  . Delcam was previously listed as a public company (LON: DLC) and is a leading supplier of advanced CADCAM and industrial measurement solutions for the manufacturing industry. With this transaction Autodesk gains Delcam s range of design, manufacturing, and inspection software that provide automated CADCAM solutions for a variety of industries, ranging from aerospace to toys and sports equipment. The transaction was structured as a cash offer for all the outstanding shares of Delcam, and Delcam has been integrated into Autodesk's MFG reportable segment. The amount of goodwill that is expected to be deductible for U.S. income tax purposes is   $166.0 million  . 
    
  During the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2015  , Autodesk also completed   21   other business combination and technology acquisitions for total cash consideration of approximately   $234.5 million  . These business combinations and technology acquisitions were not material individually or in aggregate to Autodesk's Consolidated Financial Statements.  

2016 Form 10-K  94 

     Table of Contents   

The following table summarizes the fair value of the assets acquired and liabilities assumed by major class for each of the business combinations and technology acquisitions completed during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2015  : 

6  .       Deferred Compensation    
    
  At   January 31, 2016  , Autodesk had marketable securities totaling $  1,430.2 million  , of which $  38.0 million   related to investments in debt and equity securities that are held in a rabbi trust under non-qualified deferred compensation plans. The total related deferred compensation liability was $  38.0 million   at   January 31, 2016  , of which $  1.9 million   was classified as current and $  36.1 million   was classified as non-current liabilities. The total related deferred compensation liability at   January 31, 2015   was $  40.3 million  , of which $  5.3 million   was classified as current and $  35.0 million   was classified as non-current liabilities. The securities are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets under the current portion of "Marketable Securities". The current and non-current portions of the liability are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets under  Accrued compensation  and  Other liabilities,  respectively. 
    
    7  .       Borrowing Arrangements    
    
  In June 2015, Autodesk issued $  450.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   senior notes due   June 15, 2020   and $  300.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   4.375%   senior notes due   June 15, 2025   (collectively, the  2015 Senior Notes ). Autodesk received net proceeds of $  742.0 million   from issuance of the 2015 Senior Notes, net of a discount of $  1.7 million   and issuance costs of $  6.3 million  . Both the discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the 2015 Senior Notes using the effective interest method. The proceeds of the 2015 Senior Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Autodesk may redeem the 2015 Senior Notes at any time, subject to a make whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control triggering events, Autodesk may be required to repurchase the 2015 Senior Notes, at a price equal to   101%   of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. The 2015 Senior Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit Autodesk's ability to create certain liens, to enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and to consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its assets, subject to significant qualifications and exceptions. Based on quoted market prices, the fair value of the 2015 Senior Notes was approximately $  756.9 million   as of   January 31, 2016  .  
    
  In December 2012, Autodesk issued $  400.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   1.95%   senior notes due   December 15, 2017   and $  350.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.6%   senior notes due   December 15, 2022   (collectively, the "2012 Senior Notes"). Autodesk received net proceeds of $  739.3 million   from issuance of the 2012 Senior Notes, net of a discount of $  4.5 million   and issuance costs of $  6.1 million  . Both the discount and issuance costs are being amortized to interest expense over the respective terms of the 2012 Senior Notes using the effective interest method. The proceeds of the 2012 Senior Notes are available for general corporate purposes. Autodesk may redeem the 2012 Senior Notes at any time, subject to a make whole premium. In addition, upon the occurrence of certain change of control triggering events, Autodesk may be required to repurchase the 2012 Senior Notes, at a price equal to   101%   of their principal amount, plus accrued and unpaid interest to the date of repurchase. The 2012 Senior Notes contain restrictive covenants that limit our ability to create certain liens, to enter into certain sale and leaseback transactions and to consolidate or merge with, or convey, transfer, or lease all or substantially all of our assets, subject to significant qualifications and exceptions. Based on quoted market prices, the fair value of the 2012 Senior Notes was approximately $  738.0 million   as of   January 31, 2016  .  
    
  Autodesk s line of credit facility permits unsecured short-term borrowings of up to $  400.0 million   with an option to request an increase in the amount of the credit facility by up to an additional $  100.0 million  , and is available for working capital or other business needs. This credit agreement contains customary covenants that could restrict the imposition of liens on  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  95 

Table of Contents   

Autodesk s assets, and restrict the Company s ability to incur additional indebtedness or make dispositions of assets if Autodesk fails to maintain the financial covenants. The financial covenants consist of a debt to capitalization ratio, and an interest coverage ratio. The line of credit is syndicated with various financial institutions, including Citibank, N.A., an affiliate of Citigroup, which is one of the lead lenders and an agent. In May 2015, Autodesk amended and restated the credit agreement to extend the facility's maturity date from May 2018 to   May 2020   and to update the calculation for our financial covenants. As of   January 31, 2016  , we were in compliance with the credit facility s covenants. At   January 31, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  , Autodesk had   no   outstanding borrowings on this line of credit.  
    
    8  .       Commitments and Contingencies    
    
  Lease commitments 
    
  Autodesk leases office space and computer equipment under non-cancellable operating lease agreements that expire at various dates through   2090  . The leases generally provide that Autodesk pay taxes, insurance, and maintenance expenses related to the leased assets. Certain of these lease arrangements contain escalation clauses whereby monthly rent increases over time. At   January 31, 2016  , the aggregate future minimum lease payments required were as follows: 

Rent expense related to these operating leases recognized on a straight-line basis over the lease period, was as follows: 

Purchase commitments 
    
  In the normal course of business, Autodesk enters into various purchase commitments for goods or services. Total non-cancellable purchase commitments as of   January 31, 2016   were approximately $  100.2 million     for periods through fiscal 2020  . These purchase commitments primarily result from contracts for the acquisition of IT infrastructure, marketing, and software development services.  
    
  Autodesk has certain royalty commitments associated with the shipment and licensing of certain products. Royalty expense is generally based on a dollar amount per unit shipped or a percentage of the underlying revenue. Royalty expense, which was recorded under cost of license and other revenue and cost of subscription revenue on Autodesk s Consolidated Statements of Operations, was $  17.4 million   in fiscal   2016  , $  17.9 million   in fiscal   2015  , and $  18.0 million   in fiscal   2014  . 
    
  Guarantees and Indemnifications 
    
  In the normal course of business, Autodesk provides indemnifications of varying scopes, including limited product warranties and indemnification of customers against claims of intellectual property infringement made by third parties arising from the use of its products or services. Autodesk accrues for known indemnification issues if a loss is probable and can be reasonably estimated. Historically, costs related to these indemnifications have not been significant, and because potential future costs are highly variable, Autodesk is unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnifications on its future results of operations. 

2016 Form 10-K  96 

     Table of Contents   

In connection with the purchase, sale, or license of assets or businesses with third parties, Autodesk has entered into or assumed customary indemnification agreements related to the assets or businesses purchased, sold or licensed. Historically, costs related to these indemnifications have not been significant, and because potential future costs are highly variable, Autodesk is unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnifications on its future results of operations. 
    
  As permitted under Delaware law, Autodesk has agreements whereby it indemnifies its officers and directors for certain events or occurrences while the officer or director is, or was, serving at Autodesk s request in such capacity. The maximum potential amount of future payments Autodesk could be required to make under these indemnification agreements is unlimited; however, Autodesk has directors  and officers  liability insurance coverage that is intended to reduce its financial exposure and may enable Autodesk to recover a portion of any future amounts paid. Autodesk believes the estimated fair value of these indemnification agreements in excess of applicable insurance coverage is minimal. 
    
  Legal Proceedings 
    
  Autodesk is involved in a variety of claims, suits, investigations, and proceedings in the normal course of business activities including claims of alleged infringement of intellectual property rights, commercial, employment, piracy prosecution, business practices, and other matters. In the Company's opinion, resolution of pending matters is not expected to have a material adverse impact on its consolidated results of operations, cash flows, or its financial position. Given the unpredictable nature of legal proceedings, there is a reasonable possibility that an unfavorable resolution of one or more such proceedings could in the future materially affect the Company's results of operations, cash flows, or financial position in a particular period, however, based on the information known by the Company as of the date of this filing and the rules and regulations applicable to the preparation of the Company's financial statements, any such amount is either immaterial or it is not possible to provide an estimated amount of any such potential loss. 
    
    9  .       Stockholders' Equity    
    
  Preferred Stock 
    
  Under Autodesk s Certificate of Incorporation,   2.0 million   shares of preferred stock are authorized. At   January 31, 2016  , there were no preferred shares issued or outstanding. The Board of Directors has the authority to issue the preferred stock in one or more series and to fix rights, preferences, privileges, and restrictions, including dividends and the number of shares constituting any series or the designation of such series, without any further vote or action by the stockholders. 
    
  Common Stock Repurchase Programs 
    
  Autodesk has a stock repurchase program that is used to offset dilution from the issuance of stock under the Company s employee stock plans and for such other purposes as may be in the interests of Autodesk and its stockholders, which has the effect of returning excess cash generated from the Company s business to stockholders. Autodesk repurchased and retired   8.5 million   shares in fiscal   2016   at an average repurchase price of $  53.58   per share,   6.9 million   shares in fiscal   2015   at an average repurchase price of $  53.83   per share, and   10.5 million   shares in fiscal   2014   at an average repurchase price of $  40.43  .  
    
  At   January 31, 2016  ,   6.3 million   shares remained available for repurchase under the repurchase program approved by the Board of Directors.   The number of shares acquired and the timing of the purchases are based on several factors, including general market and economic conditions, the number of employee stock option exercises and restricted stock unit issuances, the trading price of Autodesk common stock, cash on hand and available in the United States, cash requirements for acquisitions, and Company defined trading windows. 

2016 Form 10-K  97 

Table of Contents   

10  .       Interest and Other Expense, net    
    
  Interest and other expense, net, consists of the following: 

11  .       Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss    
    
  Accumulated other comprehensive loss, net of taxes, was comprised of the following: 

Reclassifications related to gains and losses on available for sale securities are included in   Interest and other expense, net  . Refer to Note 2, "  Financial Instruments  " for the amount and location of reclassifications related to derivative instruments. Reclassifications of the defined benefit pension components are included in the computation of net periodic benefit cost. Refer to Note 14, "  Retirement Benefit Plans  ". 

2016 Form 10-K  98 

       Table of Contents   

12  .       Net (Loss) Income Per Share    
    
  Basic net (loss) income per share is computed using the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period, excluding stock options and restricted stock units. Diluted net (loss) income per share is based upon the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding for the period and potentially dilutive common shares, including the effect of stock options and restricted stock units under the treasury stock method. The following table sets forth the computation of the numerators and denominators used in the basic and diluted net (loss) income per share amounts: 

____________________  
           (1) 
    Dilutive securities of   4.7 million   shares for the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2016   have been excluded from the calculation of diluted net (loss) income per share as those shares would have been anti-dilutive due to the net loss incurred during this period. 
       
  The computation of diluted net (loss) income per share does not include shares that are anti-dilutive under the treasury stock method because their exercise prices are higher than the average market value of Autodesk s stock during the fiscal year. For the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  ,   0.1 million  ,   0.1 million  , and   5.4 million   potentially anti-dilutive shares, respectively, were excluded from the computation of net (loss) income per share. 
    
    13  .       Segments    
    
  Autodesk reports segment information based on the  management  approach. The management approach designates the internal reporting used by management for making decisions and assessing performance as the source of the Company s reportable segments. Autodesk has four reportable segments: AEC, MFG, PSEB, and M E. Autodesk has no material inter-segment revenue. 
    
  The AEC, MFG, and PSEB segments derive revenue from the sale of licenses for software products and services to customers who design, build, manage, or own building, manufacturing, and infrastructure projects. Autodesk's M E segment derives revenue from the sale of products to creative professionals, post-production facilities, and broadcasters for a variety of applications, including feature films, television programs, commercials, music and corporate videos, interactive game production, web design, and interactive web streaming. 
    
  AEC software products help to improve the way building, civil infrastructure, process plant, and construction projects are designed, built, and managed. A broad portfolio of solutions enables greater efficiency, accuracy, and sustainability across the entire project lifecycle. Autodesk AEC solutions include advanced technology for BIM, AutoCAD-based design and documentation productivity software, sustainable design analysis applications, and collaborative project management solutions. BIM, an integrated process for building and infrastructure design, analysis, documentation, and construction, uses consistent, coordination information to improve communication and collaboration between the extended project team. AEC provides a comprehensive portfolio of BIM solutions that help customers deliver projects faster and more economically, while minimizing environmental impact. AEC s revenue primarily includes revenue from the sales of Autodesk Building Design Suites, Autodesk Infrastructure Design Suites, AEC flexible enterprise offerings, AEC consulting services, and AutoCAD Civil 3D. 
    
  MFG provides the manufacturers in automotive and transportation, industrial machinery, consumer products and building products with comprehensive digital prototyping solutions that bring together design data from all phases of the product development process to develop a single digital model created in Autodesk Inventor software. Autodesk s solutions for digital prototyping enable a broad group of manufacturers to realize benefits with minimal disruption to existing workflows. MFG s revenue primarily includes revenue from the sales of licenses of Autodesk Product Design Suites, AutoCAD Mechanical, Delcam, and Autodesk Moldflow products. 
    
  2016 Form 10-K  99 

Table of Contents   

PSEB includes Autodesk s design product, AutoCAD. Autodesk s AutoCAD product is a platform product that underpins the Company s design product offerings for the industries it serves. For example, AEC and MFG offer tailored versions of AutoCAD software for the industries they serve. Autodesk s AutoCAD product also provides a platform for Autodesk s developer partners to build custom solutions for a range of diverse design-oriented markets. PSEB's revenue primarily includes revenue from sales of AutoCAD and AutoCAD LT, the AutoCAD Design Suite, and many other design products, including consumer design products, as well as from sales of licenses of other Autodesk's design products.  
    
  M E consists of two product groups: Animation and Creative Finishing. Animation products, such as Autodesk Maya, Autodesk 3ds Max, and the Autodesk Entertainment Creation Suites, are sold as software only and provide tools for digital sculpting, modeling, animation, effects, rendering and compositing, for design visualization, visual effects, and games production. M E products are also included in a number of PSEB, AEC, and MFG focused suites. Creative Finishing products, such as Autodesk Flame and Autodesk Lustre, provide editing, finishing, and visual effects design and color grading. 
    
  All of Autodesk s reportable segments distribute their respective products primarily through authorized resellers and distributors and, to a lesser extent, through direct sales to end-users. 
    
  The accounting policies of the reportable segments are the same as those described in Note   1  ,    Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  .  Autodesk evaluates each segment s performance on the basis of gross profit. Autodesk currently does not separately accumulate and report asset information by segment, except for goodwill, which is disclosed in Note   1  ,    Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  .  
    
  Information concerning the operations of Autodesk s reportable segments is as follows: 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Unallocated amounts primarily relate to corporate expenses and other costs and expenses that are managed outside the reportable segments, including stock-based compensation expense. 

2016 Form 10-K  100 

     Table of Contents   

Information regarding Autodesk s operations by geographic area is as follows: 

Information regarding Autodesk s long-lived assets by geographic area is as follows: 

____________________ 
           (1) 
    Long-lived assets exclude deferred tax assets, marketable securities, goodwill, and other intangible assets.  
       
    14  .       Retirement Benefit Plans    
    
  Pretax Savings Plan 
    
  Autodesk has a 401(k) plan that covers nearly all U.S. employees. Eligible employees may contribute up to   50%   of their pretax salary, subject to limitations mandated by the Internal Revenue Service. Autodesk makes voluntary cash contributions and matches a portion of employee contributions in cash. Autodesk s contributions were $  17.3 million   in fiscal   2016  , $  11.2 million   in fiscal   2015  , and $  8.1 million   in fiscal   2014  . Autodesk does not allow participants to invest in Autodesk common stock through the 401(k) plan. 
    
  Defined Benefit Pension Plans 
    
  Autodesk maintains certain defined benefit pension plans to employees primarily located in countries outside of the U.S, particularly the United Kingdom, Switzerland, and Japan. The Company deposits funds for specific plans, consistent with the requirements of local law, with insurance companies, third-party trustees, or into government-managed accounts, and accrues for the unfunded portion of the obligation, where material. Depending on the design of the plan, local customs, and market circumstances, the liabilities of a plan may exceed qualified plan assets.  

2016 Form 10-K  101 

Benefit Obligation and Plan Assets 
    
  The changes in the projected benefit obligations and plan assets for the plans described above were as follows: 

Amounts included within the business combinations line above represent plan assets and liabilities assumed under the acquisition of Delcam. 
    
  The amounts recognized on the consolidated balance sheets at the end of each period were as follows: 

On a worldwide basis, our defined benefit pension plans were   70%   funded as of   January 31, 2016  . Funded status is not indicative of our ability to pay ongoing pension benefits or of Autodesk's obligation to fund retirement accounts. 

2016 Form 10-K  102 

As of   January 31, 2016  , the aggregate accumulated benefit obligation was   $127.1 million   for the defined benefit pension plans compared to   $124.3 million   as of   January 31, 2015  . Included in the aggregate data in the following tables are the amounts applicable to our defined benefit pension plans, with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets, as well as plans with projected benefit obligations in excess of plan assets. Amounts related to such plans at the end of each period were as follows: 

Defined Benefit Pension Plan Assets 
    
  The investments of the plans are managed by insurance companies or third-party investment managers selected by Autodesk's Trustees, consistent with regulations or market practice of the country where the assets are invested. Investments managed by qualified insurance companies or third-party investment managers under standard contracts follow local regulations, and Autodesk is not actively involved in their investment strategies. 
    
  Defined benefit pension plan assets measured at fair value on a recurring basis consisted of the following investment categories at the end of each period as follows: 

The assets held in the investment fund in the preceding table are invested in a diversified growth fund actively managed by Russell Investments in association with Aon Hewitt. The objective of the fund is to generate capital appreciation on a long-term basis through a diversified portfolio of investments. The fund aims to deliver equity-like returns in the medium to long term with around two-thirds the volatility of equity markets. The fair value of the assets held in the investment fund classified as Level 2 are either priced using quoted prices for identical assets in inactive markets or priced monthly at net asset value without restrictions on redemption. 
    
  The insurance contracts in the preceding table represent the immediate cash surrender value of assets managed by qualified insurance companies. Autodesk does not have control over the target allocation or visibility of the investment strategies of those investments. Insurance contracts and investments held by insurance companies made up   42%   of total plan assets as of both   January 31, 2016   and   January 31, 2015  .  

2016 Form 10-K  103 

Estimated Future Benefit Payments 
    
  Estimated benefit payments over the next 10 fiscal years are as follows: 

Funding Expectations 
    
  Our expected required funding for the plans during fiscal   2017   is approximately   $4.3 million  . 
    
  Net Periodic Benefit Cost 
    
  The components of net periodic pension cost for the defined benefit pension plans for fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   are as follows: 

Amounts Recorded in OCI 
    
  The components of other comprehensive income for the defined benefit pension plans before taxes for fiscal   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   are as follows: 

Amounts Recorded in AOCI 
    
  The amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss before taxes at the end of each period were as follows: 

2016 Form 10-K  104 

The estimated amounts that will be amortized from AOCI into net periodic benefit cost over the next fiscal year for the qualified defined benefit pension plans are as follows:  
                       
    Pension Benefits 
      Amortization of prior service credit 
    $ 
    (0.1 
    ) 
      Amortization of the net loss 
    1.5 
      
      Total amortization 
    $ 
    1.4 

Assumptions 
    
  Weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine costs for the plans for each period were as follows: 

The weighted-average expected long-term rate of return for the plan assets is   3.8%  . The weighted-average expected long-term rate of return on plan assets is based on the interest rates guaranteed under the insurance contracts, and the expected rate of return appropriate for each category of assets weighted for the distribution within the diversified investment fund. The assumptions used for the plans are based upon customary rates and practices for the location of the plans. Factors such as asset class allocations, long-term rates of return (actual and expected), and results of periodic asset liability modeling studies are considered when constructing the long-term rate of return assumption for our defined benefit pension plans.  
    
  Weighted average actuarial assumptions used to determine benefit obligations for the plans at the end of each period were as follows: 

In selecting the appropriate discount rate for the plans, the Company uses country-specific information, adjusted to reflect the duration of the particular plan  .     The discount rate was based on highly rated long-term bond indexes and yield curves that match the duration of the plan s benefit obligations. 
    
  Defined Contribution Plans 
    
  Autodesk also provides defined contribution plans in certain foreign countries where required by statute. Autodesk s funding policy for foreign defined contribution plans is consistent with the local requirements in each country. Autodesk s contributions to these plans were $  23.0 million   in fiscal   2016  , $  23.5 million   in fiscal   2015  , and $  22.3 million   in fiscal   2014  . 
    
  Other Plans 
    
  In addition, Autodesk offers a non-qualified deferred compensation plan to certain key employees whereby they may defer a portion (or all) of their annual compensation until retirement or a different date specified by the employee in accordance with terms of the plan. See Note   6  ,    Deferred Compensation  ,  for further discussion. 

2016 Form 10-K  105 

Table of Contents   

15  .       Restructuring Reserves    
    
  During fiscal 2014, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a world-wide restructuring plan in order to re-balance staffing levels to better align them with the evolving needs of the business. The restructuring plan included a reduction of approximately   85   positions and the consolidation of   four   leased facilities, with a total cost of approximately   $15.0 million   ("Fiscal 2014 Plan"). By   July 31, 2014  , the personnel and facilities related actions included in this restructuring plan were   substantially complete  . 
    
  During fiscal 2013, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a world-wide restructuring plan in line with the Company's strategy, including its continuing shift to cloud and mobile computing ("Fiscal 2013 Plan"). The restructuring plan resulted in a reduction of approximately   500   positions and the consolidation of   eight   leased facilities, with an aggregate charge of   $46.2 million   to date. By   January 31, 2015  , the personnel and facilities related actions included in this restructuring plan were   substantially complete  . 
    
  The following table sets forth the restructuring activities for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016   and   2015  : 

____________________ 
           (1) 
    Adjustments include the impact of foreign currency translation. 
              (2) 
    The current and non-current portions of the reserve are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets under  Other accrued liabilities  and  Other liabilities,  respectively. 

_______________ 
           (1) 
    Adjustments include the impact of foreign currency translation. 
              (2) 
    The current and non-current portions of the reserve are recorded in the Consolidated Balance Sheets under  Other accrued liabilities  and  Other liabilities,  respectively. 

2016 Form 10-K  106 

       Table of Contents   

16  .       Selected Quarterly Financial Information (Unaudited)    
    
  Summarized quarterly financial information for fiscal   2016   and   2015   is as follows: 

____________________  
           (1) 
    Certain second quarter fiscal 2016 balances have been revised to include the correction of an error identified in the third quarter of fiscal 2016, resulting in an additional   $33.1 million   of income tax expense from the previously reported results, primarily related to the establishment of a valuation allowance. See Note 1, "  Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  " for further discussion. 
              (2) 
    Subsequent to furnishing preliminary financial statements on Form 8-K on February 25, 2016 for the three and twelve months ended January 31, 2016, Autodesk identified a   $4.5 million   tax adjustment associated with deemed foreign withholding taxes related to non-permanently reinvested earnings in foreign jurisdictions which have not yet repatriated resulting in changes to the Consolidated Financial Statements as reflected in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This non-cash adjustment resulted in an increase to GAAP diluted loss per share from   $(0.15)   to   $(0.17)   for the three months ended January 31, 2016. 
       
    17  .       Subsequent Events (Unaudited)    
    
  Following a review of its business, on February 2, 2016, the Board of Directors of the Company approved a world-wide restructuring plan that includes a reduction in force that will result in the termination of approximately 10% of the Company s workforce, or approximately   925   employees, and the consolidation of certain leased facilities. The Company is taking these actions to accelerate its move to the cloud and its transition to a subscription-based business model. The restructuring is expected to reduce expenses, streamline the organization, and reallocate resources to align more closely with the company s needs going forward. Although the Company is reducing its overall staffing levels in the near term, the Company plans to invest in key development areas and strategic opportunities.  
    
  The Company expects to substantially complete the reduction in force and the facilities consolidation by the end of its fourth quarter of fiscal 2017 (ending January 31, 2017). The Company anticipates incurring pre-tax restructuring charges of   $85  
    
  2016 Form 10-K  107 

Table of Contents   

million   to   $95 million  , substantially all of which would result in cash expenditures,   $77 million   to   $85 million   of which would be for one-time employee termination benefits, and   $8 million   to   $10 million   of which would be for facilities-related and other costs.  

2016 Form 10-K  108 

       Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Autodesk, Inc. 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Autodesk, Inc. as of   January 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive (loss) income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   January 31, 2016  . Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a)(2). These financial statements and schedule are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements and schedule based on our audits. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  In our opinion, the financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the consolidated financial position of Autodesk, Inc. at   January 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the consolidated results of its operations and its cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   January 31, 2016  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly in all material respects the information set forth therein. 
    
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), Autodesk, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   January 31, 2016  , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) and our report dated   March 23, 2016   expressed an adverse opinion thereon. 

/s/ E  RNST     Y  OUNG   LLP 
  San Francisco, California 
  March 23, 2016    

2016 Form 10-K  109 

Table of Contents   

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Autodesk, Inc. 
    
  We have audited Autodesk, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting as of   January 31, 2016  , based on criteria established in Internal Control-Integrated Framework issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework) (the COSO criteria). Autodesk, Inc. s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
    
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of the company s annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. The following material weakness has been identified and included in management s assessment. Management concluded that a material weakness exists in its internal control over financial reporting related to its controls over the technical review of the reconciliation of the deferred tax accounts and the effective tax rate. We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Autodesk, Inc. as of   January 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the related consolidated statements of operations, comprehensive (loss) income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended   January 31, 2016  . This material weakness was considered in determining the nature, timing and extent of audit tests applied in our audit of the fiscal 2016 financial statements, and this report does not affect our report dated   March 23, 2016  , which expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
    
  In our opinion, because of the effect of the material weakness described above on the achievement of the objectives of the control criteria, Autodesk, Inc. has not maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of   January 31, 2016  , based on the COSO criteria.  

/s/ E  RNST     Y  OUNG   LLP 
  San Francisco, California 
  March 23, 2016    

2016 Form 10-K  110 

       Table of Contents   

ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
       
  None. 
    
             ITEM 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
       
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
    
  We maintain "disclosure controls and procedures," as defined in Rule 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the "Exchange Act"). Our disclosure controls and procedures are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed in our Exchange Act reports is (i) recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the rules of the Securities and Exchange Commission, and (ii) accumulated and communicated to Autodesk management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. We conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based upon this evaluation, our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were not effective as of   January 31, 2016   for reasons described below. 
    
  However, corrective actions have been initiated to address the internal control weakness as described below under the section "Remediation Efforts with Respect to Material Weakness". 
    
  Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
    
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended). Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   January 31, 2016  . In making this assessment, our management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ) in the 2013 Internal Control Integrated Framework. Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will necessarily prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, within Autodesk have been detected. 
    
  During the year ended   January 31, 2016  , our management has concluded our internal control over financial reporting was not effective to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles due to the material weakness discussed in further detail below. Our independent registered public accounting firm, Ernst   Young, LLP, has issued an audit report on our internal control over financial reporting, which is included in Item 8 herein. 
    
  In connection with the preparation of our Condensed Consolidated Financial Statements for the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2015, our management concluded that a material weakness exists in our internal control over financial reporting related to our controls over the technical review of our reconciliation of our deferred tax accounts and the effective tax rate. A material weakness is a deficiency, or a combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting, such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis.  
    
  We have performed additional analyses and other procedures to enable management to conclude that, notwithstanding the existence of the material weakness described above, the consolidated financial statements included in this Form 10-K present fairly, in all material respects, our financial position, results of operations and cash flows for the periods presented in conformity with GAAP. 

2016 Form 10-K  111 

Table of Contents   

Remediation Efforts with Respect to Material Weakness 
    
  Management initiated remediation plans including the following: 

enhancing our technical accounting review for complex income tax considerations;  

enhancing our income tax controls to include specific activities to ensure proper classification of deferred taxes;  

supplementing our accounting and tax professionals with the engagement of an internationally recognized accounting firm to assist us in the technical review regarding the application of tax rules around deferred tax assets and liabilities; and 

assessed and reorganized the structure of our tax function to enhance the level of documentation, technical oversight, and review. 
       
  Management will continue to enhance its controls to include refinements and improvements to certain controls over the accounting for income taxes. The Company s enhanced controls will continue to evolve and have not had a sufficient period of time to operate for management to conclude that they were operating effectively. Management believes the foregoing efforts will effectively remediate the material weakness.  
    
  Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
    
  Other than with respect to the remediation efforts described above, there were no changes in our internal controls over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) during the quarter ended   January 31, 2016   that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal controls over financial reporting. 
    
             ITEM 9B. 
    OTHER INFORMATION 
       
  None. 

2016 Form 10-K  112 

       Table of Contents   

PART III 
  Certain information required by Part III is omitted from this Annual Report because we intend to file a definitive proxy statement pursuant to Regulation 14A for our Annual Meeting of Stockholders not later than 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this Annual Report (the  Proxy Statement ) and certain information included therein is incorporated herein by reference. Only those sections of the Proxy Statement that specifically address the items set forth herein are incorporated by reference. 
    
             ITEM 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
       
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal One Election of Directors,   Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,  and  Corporate Governance  in our Proxy Statement. 
    
  EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
    
  The following sets forth certain information as of   March 23, 2016   regarding our executive officers. 
    
                     Name 
    Age 
      
    Position 
      Carl Bass 
    58 
      
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
      R. Scott Herren 
    54 
      
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      Andrew Anagnost 
    51 
      
    Senior Vice President, Industry Strategy and Marketing 
      Jan Becker 
    63 
      
    Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Real Estate 
      Steve M. Blum 
    51 
      
    Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services 
      Pascal W. Di Fronzo 
    51 
      
    Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 
      Amar Hanspal 
    52 
      
    Senior Vice President, Autodesk Product Group 

Carl Bass   joined Autodesk in September 1993 and has served as President and Chief Executive Officer since May 2006. Mr. Bass served as Interim Chief Financial Officer from August 2014 to November 2014 and August 2008 to April 2009. From June 2004 to April 2006, Mr. Bass served as Chief Operating Officer. From February 2002 to June 2004, Mr. Bass served as Senior Executive Vice President, Design Solutions Group. From August 2001 to February 2002, Mr. Bass served as Executive Vice President, Emerging Business and Chief Strategy Officer. From June 1999 to July 2001, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Buzzsaw.com, Inc., a spin-off from Autodesk. Mr. Bass has also held other executive positions within Autodesk. Mr. Bass served on the boards of directors of McAfee, Inc. from January 2008 until it was acquired by Intel Corporation in February 2011 and E2open, Inc. from July 2011 until it was acquired by Insight Venture Partners in April 2014. Mr. Bass has served on the boards of directors of Autodesk, Inc. since January 2006, HP, Inc. since November 2015 and Zendesk, Inc. since February 2016. 
    
  R. Scott Herren   joined Autodesk in November 2014 and serves as Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer. Prior to joining Autodesk, Mr. Herren was the Senior Vice President of Finance for Citrix Systems, Inc. from September 2011 to October 2014 where he led the company s finance, accounting, tax, treasury, investor relations, real estate, and facilities teams. From March 2000 to September 2011, Mr. Herren held a variety of leadership positions at Citrix including Vice President and Managing Director for EMEA and Vice President and General Manager of the Virtualization Systems Group. Prior to Citrix, Mr. Herren served at FedEx Corporation as Vice President, Financial Planning. Prior to FedEx, he spent 13 years at International Business Machines Corporation in senior financial positions. 
    
  Andrew Anagnost   joined Autodesk in September 1997 and has served as our Senior Vice President, Industry Strategy   Marketing since March 2012. From December 2009 to March 2012, Dr. Anagnost was Vice President, Product Suites and Web Services. Prior to this position, Dr. Anagnost served as Vice President of CAD/CAE products for the manufacturing division from March 2007 to December 2009. Previously, Dr. Anagnost held other senior management positions at Autodesk. Prior to joining Autodesk, Dr. Anagnost held various engineering, sales, marketing and product management positions at Lockheed Aeronautical Systems Company and EXA Corporation. He also served as an NRC post-doctoral fellow at NASA Ames Research Center. 

2016 Form 10-K  113 

Table of Contents   

Jan Becker   joined Autodesk in September 1992 and has served as Senior Vice President, Human Resources and Corporate Real Estate since June 2000. Ms. Becker previously served in other capacities in the Human Resources Department at Autodesk. Prior to joining Autodesk, Ms. Becker held a variety of senior management positions at Sun Microsystems. Prior to Sun Microsystems, Ms. Becker worked both domestically and internationally at a number of high-tech organizations, including Activision, Digital Equipment Corporation, and Hewlett-Packard Company. 
    
  Steven M. Blum   joined Autodesk in January 2003 and has served as Senior Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Services since February 2011. From January 2003 to February 2011, he served as Senior Vice President of Americas Sales. Prior to this position, Blum was Executive Vice President of Sales and Account Management for Parago, Inc. Blum also held positions at Mentor Graphics, most recently serving as Vice President of America's sales. Before joining Mentor Graphics, he held engineering and sales positions at NCR Corporation and Advanced Micro Devices. 
    
  Pascal W. Di Fronzo   joined Autodesk in June 1998 and has served as Senior Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since March 2007. From March 2006 to March 2007, Mr. Di Fronzo served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary, and served as Vice President, Assistant General Counsel and Assistant Secretary from March 2005 through March 2006. Previously, Mr. Di Fronzo served in other business and legal capacities in our Legal Department. Prior to joining Autodesk, he advised high technology and emerging growth companies on business and intellectual property transactions and litigation while in private practice. 
    
  Amar Hanspal   joined Autodesk in June 1987 and has served as our Senior Vice President, Autodesk Product Group since November 2015. From February 2012 to November 2015, Mr. Hanspal served as Senior Vice President, Information Modeling   Platform Product Group. Prior to this position, Mr. Hanspal served as Senior Vice President, Platform Solutions and Emerging Business from January 2007 to February 2012 and as Vice President of Autodesk Collaboration Solutions from January 2003 to January 2007. Previously, Mr. Hanspal held other executive and non-executive positions at Autodesk.  
  There is no family relationship among any of our directors or executive officers. 
    
             ITEM 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
       
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled "Corporate Governance" and  Executive Compensation,  in our Proxy Statement. 
    
             ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
       
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,  and  Executive Compensation Equity Compensation Plan Information  in our Proxy Statement. 
    
             ITEM 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
       
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the section entitled  Certain Relationships and Related Party Transactions  and  Corporate Governance Independence of the Board of Directors  in our Proxy Statement. 
    
             ITEM 14. 
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTING FEES AND SERVICES 
       
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Proposal Two Ratification of the Appointment of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in our Proxy Statement. 

2016 Form 10-K  114 

       Table of Contents   

PART IV 
    
             ITEM 15. 
    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
       
  (a)     The following documents are filed as part of this Report: 
    
           1. 
    Financial Statements  : The information concerning Autodesk s financial statements, and Report of Ernst   Young LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm required by this Item is incorporated by reference herein to the section of this Report in   Item 8  , entitled    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  .  
       
           2. 
    Financial Statement Schedule  :    The following financial statement schedule of Autodesk, Inc., for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , is filed as part of this Report and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements of Autodesk, Inc.: 
       
  Schedule II    Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
    
  Schedules not listed above have been omitted because they are not applicable or are not required or the information required to be set forth therein is included in the Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes thereto. 
    
           3. 
    Exhibits  :  See Item 15(b) below. We have filed, or incorporated into this Report by reference, the exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits immediately following the signature page of this Form 10-K. 
       
  (b)     Exhibits: 
    
  We have filed, or incorporated into the Report by reference, the exhibits listed on the accompanying Index to Exhibits immediately following the signature page of this Form 10-K. 
    
  (c)     Financial Statement Schedules: See Item 15(a), above. 

2016 Form 10-K  115 

Table of Contents   

ITEM 15(A)(2) 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULE II 

____________________ 
           (1) 
    The partner program reserves balance impacts "Accounts receivable, net" and "Accounts payable" on the accompanying Consolidated Balance Sheets. 

2016 Form 10-K  116 

       Table of Contents   

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this Report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

AUTODESK, INC. 

By: 
    /s/    CARL BASS         

Carl Bass 

President and Chief Executive Officer 
      Dated: 
    March 23, 2016 

2016 Form 10-K  117 

Table of Contents   

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS  , that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Carl Bass and R. Scott Herren each as his or her attorney-in-fact, each with the power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any amendments to this Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each of said attorneys-in-fact, or his substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant and in the capacities as of   March 23, 2016  . 

2016 Form 10-K  118 

       Table of Contents   

Signature 
       
    Title 
      /s/    CARL BASS         
       
    President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) 
      Carl Bass 

/s/    R. SCOTT HERREN         
       
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 
      R. Scott Herren 

/s/    PAUL UNDERWOOD       
      
    Vice President and Controller 
       (Principal Accounting Officer) 
      Paul Underwood 

/s/    CRAWFORD W. BEVERIDGE         
       
    Director (Non-executive Chairman of the Board) 
      Crawford W. Beveridge 

Director 
      Jeff Clarke 

/s/    J. HALLAM DAWSON         
       
    Director 
      J. Hallam Dawson 

Director 
      Scott Ferguson 

/s/    THOMAS GEORGENS         
      
    Director 
      Thomas Georgens 

/s/    PER-KRISTIAN HALVORSEN         
       
    Director 
      Per-Kristian Halvorsen 

Director 
      Rick Hill 

/s/    MARY T. MCDOWELL         
       
    Director 
      Mary T. McDowell 

/s/    LORRIE M. NORRINGTON         
       
    Director 
      Lorrie M. Norrington 

/s/    ELIZABETH RAFAEL     
       
    Director 
      Elizabeth Rafael 

/s/    STACY J. SMITH        
       
    Director 
      Stacy J. Smith 

/s/    STEVEN M. WEST         
       
    Director 
      Steven M. West 

2016 Form 10-K  119 

Table of Contents   

Index to Exhibits 
    
                   Exhibit No. 
       
    Description 

3.1 
       
    Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of Registrant   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2006, file no. 000-14338) 

3.2 
       
    Amended and Restated Bylaws of Registrant (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 filed with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 11, 2016  ) 

4.1 
      
    Indenture dated December 13, 2012, by and between Autodesk, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association  (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 filed with the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 13, 2012  ) 

4.2 
      
    First Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Notes) dated December 13, 2012, by and between Autodesk, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association. (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 filed with the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 13, 2012  ) 

4.3 
      
    Second Supplemental Indenture (including Form of Notes), dated June 5, 2015, by and between Autodesk, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association.   (incorporated by reference from Exhibit 4.1 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 8, 2015) 

10.1* 
       
    Description of Registrant's Performance Stock Unit Program (  incorporated by reference to Item 5.02 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 17, 2015  ) 

10.2* 
       
    Description of Registrant's Sales Commission Plan (  incorporated by reference to Item 5.02 of the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on March 17, 2015  ) 

10.3* 
       
    Registrant s 1998 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan, as amended on June 10, 2010   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2013) 

10.4* 
       
    Registrant s 1998 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan Forms of Agreement (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2005  ) 

10.5* 
       
    Registrant s 1998 Employee Qualified Stock Purchase Plan Form of Agreement (non-U.S. Employees) (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2014  ) 

10.6* 
       
    Registrant s 2000 Directors  Option Plan, as amended (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 18, 2008  ) 

10.7* 
       
    Registrant s 2000 Directors  Option Plan Forms of Agreements (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2008  ) 

10.8* 
       
    Registrant s 2008 Employee Stock Plan, as amended and restated (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2010) 

10.9* 
       
    Registrant s 2008 Employee Stock Plan Forms of Agreement (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended April 30, 2008  ) 

10.10* 
       
    Registrant s 2008 Employee Stock Plan Form of Agreement (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 6, 2009  ) 

10.11* 
       
    Registrant s 2008 Employee Stock Plan Forms of Restricted Stock Unit Agreements (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 18, 2008  ) 

10.12* 
       
    Registrant s 2008 Employee Stock Plan Forms of Agreement (non-U.S. Employees) (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.14 filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2009  ) 

2016 Form 10-K  120 

       Table of Contents   

2016 Form 10-K  121 

Table of Contents   

Exhibit No. 
       
    Description 

10.31* 
       
    Registrant s Equity Incentive Deferral Plan as amended and restated effective as of June 12, 2008 (  incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended July 31, 2008  ) 

10.32* 
      
    Amendment to Registrant's Equity Incentive Deferral Plan effective as of February 17, 2012   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.37 filed with the Registrant's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2012) 

10.33 
       
    Office Lease between Registrant and the J.H.S. Trust for 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, CA, as amended   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended October 31, 2004) 

10.34 
       
    Fourth Amendment to Lease between Registrant and the J.H.S. Holdings L.P. for 111 McInnis Parkway, San Rafael, CA   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 filed with the Registrant s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2010) 

10.35 
       
    Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of May 29, 2015, by and among the Registrant, the lenders from time to time party thereto and Citibank, N.A., as agent   (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant's Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 29, 2015) 

21.1 
       
    List of Subsidiaries   (filed herewith) 

23.1 
       
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm (Ernst   Young LLP)   (filed herewith) 

24.1 
       
    Power of Attorney (contained in the signature page to this Annual Report) 

31.1 
       
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (  filed herewith  ) 

31.2 
       
    Certification of Chief Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (  filed herewith  ) 

32.1  
       
    Certification of Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002   (filed herewith) 

101.INS    
       
    XBRL Instance Document 

101.SCH    
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema 

101.CAL    
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase 

101.DEF    
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Linkbase 

101.LAB    
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase 

101.PRE    
       
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase 

____________________ 
           * 
    Denotes a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 
                
    The certifications attached as Exhibit 32.1 that accompany this Annual Report on Form 10-K, are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not to be incorporated by reference into any filing of Autodesk, Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, whether made before or after the date of this Form 10-K, irrespective of any general incorporation language contained in such filing. 
                  
    The financial information contained in these XBRL documents is unaudited.       

2016 Form 10-K  122 

<EX-10.21>
 2
 adsk01312016ex1021.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.21

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.21 
  AUTODESK, INC. 
  2012 OUTSIDE DIRECTORS  STOCK PLAN 
  (AS AMENDED AND RESTATED EFFECTIVE 
  AS OF MARCH 12, 2015)* 
    
  1.  Purposes of the Plan  .  The purposes of this 2012 Outside Directors  Stock Plan are to attract and retain highly skilled individuals as Directors of the Company, to provide additional incentive to the Outside Directors of the Company to serve as Directors, and to encourage their continued service on the Board. 
  2.      Definitions  .  As used herein, the following definitions shall apply: 
  (a)       Administrator    means the Board, in accordance with Section 4 of the Plan.  
  (b)       Applicable Laws    means the requirements relating to the administration of equity compensation plans under U.S. state corporate laws, U.S. federal and state securities laws, the Code, any stock exchange or quotation system on which the Shares are listed or quoted and the applicable laws of any other country or jurisdiction where Awards are granted under the Plan. 
  (c)       Award    means, individually or collectively, a grant under the Plan of Options, Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units.   
  (d)       Award Agreement    means the written or electronic agreement setting forth the terms and conditions applicable to each Award granted under the Plan. 
  (e)       Board    means the Board of Directors of the Company.  
  (f)       Change of Control    means the occurrence of any of the following events, in one or a series of related transactions:  
  (a)  any  person,  as such term is used in Sections 13(d) and 14(d) of the Exchange Act, other than the Company, a subsidiary of the Company or a Company employee benefit plan, including any trustee of such plan acting as trustee, is or becomes the  beneficial owner  (as defined in Rule 13d-3 under the Exchange Act), directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company representing fifty percent (50%) or more of the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding securities entitled to vote generally in the election of directors; or 
  (i)    a merger or consolidation of the Company or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company with any other corporation, other than a merger or consolidation which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior thereto continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of the surviving entity) at least fifty percent (50%) of the total voting power represented by the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity outstanding immediately after such merger or consolidation; or  
  (ii)    the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all the Company s assets; or 
  (iii)    a change in the composition of the Board, as a result of which fewer than a majority of the Directors are Incumbent Directors.   Incumbent Directors  shall mean Directors  
    * The Plan was originally adopted by the Board on November 7, 2011 and approved by the stockholders on January 6, 2012.  The Plan was amended and restated via Board approval on March 12, 2015. 

who either (A) are Directors as of the date this Plan is approved by the Board, or (B) are elected, or nominated for election, to the Board with the affirmative votes of at least a majority of the Directors and whose election or nomination was not in connection with any transaction described in (i) or (ii) above or in connection with an actual or threatened proxy contest relating to the election of directors of the Company. 
  (g)       Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  Reference to a specific section of the Code or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation.   
  (h)       Common Stock    means the Common Stock of the Company. 
  (i)       Company    means Autodesk, Inc., a Delaware corporation, or any successor thereto.   
  (j)       Date of Grant    means, with respect to an Award, the date that the Award is granted and its exercise price is set (if applicable)  ,   consistent with Applicable Laws and applicable financial accounting rules.   
  (k)       Director    means a member of the Board. 
  (l)       Disability    means total and permanent disability as defined in Section 22(e)(3) of the Code.  
  (m)       Effective Date    means January 6, 2012.   
  (n)       Employee    means any person, including officers and Directors, employed by the Company or any Parent or Subsidiary of the Company.  The payment of a Director s fee or consulting fee by the Company shall not be sufficient in and of itself to constitute  employment  by the Company unless the Director and the Company agree that, as a result of payment of such fees in connection with services rendered, such Director should not be considered an Outside Director. 
  (o)       Exchange Act    means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  Reference to a specific section of the Exchange Act or regulation thereunder shall include such section or regulation, any valid regulation promulgated under such section, and any comparable provision of any future legislation or regulation amending, supplementing or superseding such section or regulation. 
  (p)       Fair Market Value    means, as of any date, the value of Common Stock determined as follows: 
  (i)    If the Common Stock is listed on any established stock exchange or a national market system, including without limitation the Nasdaq National Market of the National Association of Securities Dealers, Inc. Automated Quotation ( Nasdaq ) System, the Fair Market Value of a Share of Common Stock shall be the closing sales price for such stock (or the closing bid, if no sales were reported) as quoted on such system or exchange (or the exchange with the greatest volume of trading in Common Stock) on the day of determination; or 
  (ii)    In the absence of an established market for the Common Stock, the Fair Market Value shall be determined in good faith by the Administrator. 
  (iii)    If Fair Market Value is to be determined as of a date which is not a date on which the Common Stock is traded, then the Fair Market Value on such date shall be the Fair Market Value on the next subsequent trading date. 
  (q)       Incentive Stock Option    means an Option intended to qualify as an incentive stock option within the meaning of Section 422 of the Code and the regulations promulgated thereunder.  
      -2- 

(r)       Notice of Grant    means a written or electronic notice evidencing certain terms and conditions of an individual Award.  The Notice of Grant is part of the Award Agreement.  
  (s)       Option    means a nonqualified stock option granted pursuant to the Plan which is not intended to qualify as an Incentive Stock Option. 
  (t)       Outside Director    means a Director who is not an Employee. 
  (u)       Parent    means a  parent corporation , whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(e) of the Code.  
  (v)       Participant    means the holder of an outstanding Award granted under the Plan.       
  (w)       Period of Restriction    means the period during which the transfer of Shares of Restricted Stock are subject to restrictions and therefore, the Shares are subject to a substantial risk of forfeiture.  
  (x)       Plan    means this 2012 Outside Directors  Stock Plan, as set forth in this instrument and as hereafter amended from time to time.   
  (y)       Qualified Retirement    means a retirement from the Board after the retiring Director either (i) has attained 62 years of age and has served on the Board for at least five (5) years, or (ii) has served on the Board for at least ten (10) years. 
  (z)       Restricted Stock    means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 9.   
  (aa)       Restricted Stock Unit    means an Award granted to a Participant pursuant to Section 10. 
  (bb)        Rule 16b-3    means Rule 16b-3 of the Exchange Act or any successor to Rule 16b-3, as in effect when discretion is being exercised with respect to the Plan.  
  (cc)       Share    means a share of the Common Stock, as adjusted in accordance with Section 13 of the Plan.   
  (dd)       Subsidiary    means a  subsidiary corporation , whether now or hereafter existing, as defined in Section 424(f) of the Code. 
  3.      Stock Subject to the Plan  .   
  (a)    Subject to the provisions of Section 13 of the Plan, the maximum aggregate number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan is equal to 1,750,000 Shares, which Shares were, as of January 6, 2012, available for issuance under the Company s 2010 Outside Directors  Stock Plan. 
  (b)        The Shares may be authorized, but unissued, or reacquired Common Stock.  Subject to Section 3(c) hereof, if an Award expires or becomes unexercisable without having been exercised in full, or with respect to Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units, is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company, the unpurchased Shares (or for Awards other than Options, the forfeited or repurchased Shares) which were subject thereto will become available for future grant or sale under the Plan (unless the Plan has terminated).  Shares that have actually been issued under the Plan under any Award will not be returned to the Plan and will not become available for future distribution under the Plan; provided, however, that if unvested Shares of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units are repurchased by the Company or are forfeited to the Company, such Shares will become available for future grant under the Plan.  Shares used to pay the exercise price of an Award will not become available for future grant or sale under the Plan.  To the extent an Award under the Plan is paid out in cash rather than Shares, such cash payment will not result in reducing the number of Shares available for issuance under the Plan.   
      -3- 

(c)    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary, each Share subject to an Option shall be counted against the Shares authorized for issuance under the Plan as one Share.  Each Share subject to an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units shall be counted against the Shares authorized for issuance under the Plan as 2.11 Shares.  Each Share which is subject to an Award of Restricted Stock or Restricted Stock Units granted under the Plan which is forfeited to or repurchased by the Company pursuant to Section 3(b) hereof shall count as having returned 2.11 Shares to the total of number of Shares which are available for future grant or sale under the Plan. 
  4.      Administration of the Plan  . 
  (a)      Rule 16b-3  .  To the extent desirable to qualify transactions hereunder as exempt under Rule 16b-3, the transactions contemplated hereunder shall be structured to satisfy the requirements for exemption under Rule 16b-3. 
  (b)      Powers of the Administrator  .  The Board shall be the Administrator of the Plan.  Subject to the provisions of the Plan, the Administrator shall have the authority, in its discretion: 
  (i)    to determine the Fair Market Value of the Common Stock, in accordance with Section 2(p) of the Plan; 
  (ii)    to select the individuals to whom Awards may be granted hereunder; 
  (iii)    to determine whether and to what extent Awards are granted hereunder; 
  (iv)    to determine the number of Shares to be covered by each Award granted hereunder; 
  (v)    to approve forms of agreement for use under the Plan; 
  (vi)    to determine the terms and conditions, not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan, of any Award granted hereunder.  With respect to Options, such terms and conditions include, but are not limited to, the exercise price, the time or times when Options may be exercised, based in each case on such factors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine; 
  (vii)    to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan and Awards granted hereunder; 
  (viii)    to prescribe, amend and rescind rules and regulations relating to the Plan, including rules and regulations relating to sub-plans established for the purpose of qualifying for preferred tax treatment under foreign tax laws; 
  (ix)    to modify or amend each Award (not inconsistent with the terms of the Plan), including the discretionary authority to extend the post-termination exercisability period of Options longer than is otherwise provided for in the Plan; 
  (x)    to authorize any person to execute on behalf of the Company any instrument required to effect the grant of an Award previously granted by the Administrator; 
  (xi)    to determine the terms and restrictions applicable to Awards; and 
  (xii)    to make all other determinations deemed necessary or advisable for administering the Plan. 
  (c)      Effect of Administrator s Decision  .  The Administrator s decisions, determinations and interpretations shall be final and binding on all Participants and any other holders of Awards and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law. 
  5.      Eligibility  .  Awards may be granted only to Outside Directors. 
  6.      No Service Rights  .  Neither the Plan nor any Award shall confer upon a Participant any right with respect to continuing the Participant s service with the Company or its Subsidiaries. 
      -4- 

7.      Term of Plan  .    The Plan shall become effective on January 6, 2012 and continue in effect, unless terminated earlier, until June 30, 2022. 
  8.      Stock Options  .   
  (a)      Grant of Options  .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, Options may be granted to Outside Directors at any time and from time to time as determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.   
  (b)      Term  .  The term of each Option shall be stated in the Notice of Grant;   provided, however  , that the term shall be no longer than seven (7) years from the Date of Grant.  Subject to the limit set forth in the preceding sentence, the Administrator may, after an Option is granted, extend the maximum term of the Option.  Unless otherwise determined by the Administrator, any extension of the term of an Option pursuant to this Section 8(b) shall comply with Code Section 409A. 
  (c)      Option Exercise Price  . The per share exercise price for the Shares to be issued pursuant to exercise of an Option shall be determined by the Administrator and shall be no less than 100% of the Fair Market Value per share on the Date of Grant  
  (d)      No Repricing  .  The exercise price for an Option may not be reduced without the consent of the Company s stockholders.  This shall include, without limitation, a repricing of the Option as well as an Option exchange program whereby the Participant agrees to cancel an existing Option in exchange for (a) Awards with a lower exercise price, (b) a different type of Award, (c) cash, or (d) a combination of (a), (b) and/or (c). 
  (e)      Waiting Period and Exercise Dates  .  At the time an Option is granted, the Administrator shall fix the period within which the Option may be exercised and shall determine any conditions which must be satisfied before the Option may be exercised.  In so doing, the Administrator may specify that an Option may not be exercised until the completion of a service period. 
  (f)      Form of Consideration  .  The Administrator shall determine the acceptable form of consideration for exercising an Option, including the method of payment.  Subject to Applicable Laws, such consideration may consist entirely of: 
  (i)    cash; 
  (ii)    check; 
  (iii)    other Shares which (A) in the case of Shares acquired upon exercise of an option, have been owned by the Participant for more than six months on the date of surrender, and (B) have a Fair Market Value on the date of surrender equal to the aggregate exercise price of the Shares as to which said Option shall be exercised; 
  (iv)    delivery to the Company of (A) a properly executed exercise notice together with such other documentation as the Administrator and the broker, if applicable, shall require to effect an exercise of the Option and (B) the sale proceeds required to pay the exercise price; 
  (v)    any combination of the foregoing methods of payment; or 
  (vi)    such other consideration and method of payment for the issuance of Shares to the extent permitted by Applicable Laws; provided, however, that in no case will loans be permitted as consideration for exercising an Option hereunder. 
  (g)      Exercise of Option; Rights as a Stockholder  .  Any Option granted hereunder shall be exercisable according to the terms of the Plan and at such times and under such conditions as determined by the Administrator and set forth in the Award Agreement. 
  An Option may not be exercised for a fraction of a Share. 
      -5- 

An Option shall be deemed exercised when the Company receives: (i) written or electronic notice of exercise (in accordance with the Award Agreement) from the person entitled to exercise the Option, and (ii) full payment for the Shares with respect to which the Option is exercised.  Full payment may consist of any consideration and method of payment authorized by the Administrator and permitted by the Award Agreement and the Plan.  Shares issued upon exercise of an Option shall be issued in the name of the Participant.  Until such Shares are issued (as evidenced by the appropriate entry on the books of the Company or of a duly authorized transfer agent of the Company), no right to vote or receive dividends or any other rights as a stockholder shall exist with respect to the optioned stock, notwithstanding the exercise of the Option.  The Company shall issue (or cause to be issued) such Share promptly after the Option is exercised.  No adjustment will be made for a dividend or other right for which the record date is prior to the date the Share is issued, except as provided in Section 13 of the Plan. 
  Exercising an Option in any manner shall decrease the number of Shares thereafter available for sale under the Option, by the number of Shares as to which the Option is exercised. 
  (h)      Termination of Relationship as an Outside Director  .  If a Participant ceases to serve as an Outside Director other than by reason of death, Disability or Qualified Retirement, the Participant may exercise his or her Option for seven (7) months following the date of such cessation, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date.   
  (i)      Qualifying Retirement  .  If a Participant ceases to serve as an Outside Director by reason of a Qualified Retirement, then the Participant may exercise his or her Option for three (3) years following the date of such cessation, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date. 
  (j)      Disability  .  If a Participant ceases to serve as an Outside Director by reason of Disability, the Participant may exercise his or her Option for twelve (12) months following the date of such cessation, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date.  
  (k)      Death of Participant  .  If a Participant ceases to serve as an Outside Director by reason of the Participant s death, the Option may be exercised for twelve (12) months following Participant s death, to the extent that the Participant was entitled to exercise it on such date, by the Participant s designated beneficiary, provided such beneficiary has been designated prior to Participant s death in a form acceptable to the Administrator.  If no such beneficiary has been designated by the Participant, then such Option may be exercised by the personal representative of the Participant s estate or by the person(s) to whom the Option is transferred pursuant to the Participant s will or in accordance with the laws of descent and distribution.   
  (l)      General  .  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event may the Option be exercised after its term has expired.  If, on the date of cessation of service as an Outside Director, the Participant is not vested as to his or her entire Option, the Shares covered by the unvested portion of the Option shall revert to the Plan.  If, after cessation of service as an Outside Director, the Participant (or the Participant s beneficiary or representative, as the case may be) does not exercise his or her Option within the time specified by the Administrator, the Option shall terminate, and the Shares covered by such Option shall revert to the Plan. 
  9.      Restricted Stock  .   
  (a)      Grant of Restricted Stock  .  Subject to the terms and provisions of the Plan, the Administrator, at any time and from time to time, may grant Shares of Restricted Stock to Outside Directors as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.  
  (b)      Restricted Stock Agreement  .  Each Award of Restricted Stock shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the Period of Restriction, the number of Shares granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.  Unless the Administrator determines otherwise, Shares of Restricted Stock shall be held by the Company as escrow agent until the restrictions on such Shares have lapsed.   
      -6- 

(c)      Transferability  .  Except as provided in this Section 9, Shares of Restricted Stock may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated until the end of the applicable Period of Restriction.   
  (d)      Other Restrictions  .  The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may impose such other restrictions on Shares of Restricted Stock as it may deem advisable or appropriate, in accordance with this Section 9(d).   
  (i)      General Restrictions  .  The Administrator may set restrictions based upon continued service with the Company and its affiliates, applicable federal or state securities laws, other Applicable Laws, or any other basis determined by the Administrator in its discretion.   
  (ii)      Legend  .  The Administrator, in its discretion, may legend the Shares representing Restricted Stock to give appropriate notice of such restrictions.   
  (e)      Removal of Restrictions  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 9, Shares of Restricted Stock covered by each Restricted Stock grant made under the Plan shall be released from escrow as soon as practicable after the last day of the Period of Restriction.  The Administrator, in its discretion, may accelerate the time at which any restrictions shall lapse or be removed.  After the restrictions have lapsed, the Participant shall be entitled to have any legend or legends under Section 9(d)(ii) removed from his or her Share, and the Shares shall be freely transferable by the Participant.  The Administrator (in its discretion) may establish procedures regarding the release of Shares from escrow and the removal of legends, as necessary or appropriate to minimize administrative burdens on the Company.   
  (f)      Voting Rights  .  During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock granted hereunder may exercise full voting rights with respect to those Shares, unless the Administrator determines otherwise.   
  (g)      Dividends and Other Distributions  .  During the Period of Restriction, Participants holding Shares of Restricted Stock shall be entitled to receive all dividends and other distributions paid with respect to such Shares unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement.  Any such dividends or distribution shall be subject to the same restrictions on transferability and forfeitability as the Shares of Restricted Stock with respect to which they were paid, unless otherwise provided in the Award Agreement.   
  (h)      Return of Restricted Stock to the Company  .  On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, the Restricted Stock for which restrictions have not lapsed shall revert to the Company and again shall become available for grant under the Plan.   
  10.      Restricted Stock Units  .   
  (a)      Grant of Restricted Stock Units  .   
  (i)    Each Outside Director who first joins the Board shall be automatically granted Restricted Stock Units for that number of Shares as determined by dividing $450,000 by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant, rounded down to the nearest whole Share (the  Initial Restricted Stock Units ), upon the date of the first meeting of the Board at which such person first serves as an Outside Director (which shall be (i) in the case of an Outside Director elected by the stockholders of the Company, the first meeting of the Board after the meeting of stockholders at which such Outside Director was elected or (ii) in the case of an Outside Director appointed by the Board to fill a vacancy, the meeting of the Board at which such Outside Director is appointed); provided, however, that no Restricted Stock Unit shall be settled or paid under the Plan until stockholder approval of the Plan has been obtained in accordance with Section 14(b) hereof; and provided further, however, that the number of Shares subject to a grant of Initial Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to review and revision by the Board on an annual basis. 
  (ii)    On the date of each annual stockholder meeting (an  Annual Meeting ) during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director shall automatically receive an additional award of  Restricted Stock Units for that number of Shares as determined by dividing $250,000 by the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date of grant, rounded down to the nearest whole Share (the  Annual Restricted Stock Units ), provided that (1) the Annual Restricted Stock Units shall  
      -7- 

be granted only to an Outside Director who has served on the Board for at least six full months prior to the date of grant and (2) the grant of Annual Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to the Outside Director s continued service; provided, however, that the number of Shares subject to a grant of Annual Restricted Stock Units shall be subject to review and revision by the Board on an annual basis. 
  (iii)    Each grant of Initial Restricted Stock Units shall vest at the rate of 1/3 on each of the first three anniversaries of its date of grant, provided that the Participant is an Outside Director on such date. Each grant of Annual Restricted Stock Units shall vest on the date of the following year s Annual Meeting, provided that the Participant is an Outside Director on such date. 
  (iv)    On or before December 31 of the calendar year prior to each Annual Meeting during the term of this Plan, each Outside Director may make an election (the  Election ) to receive any or all of his or her annual cash retainer that will be earned for services performed as an Outside Director in calendar years after the calendar year in which the election is made in the form of a Restricted Stock Unit Award.  The Election must be in writing and delivered to the Secretary of the Company on or prior to December 31 of the calendar year prior to such Annual Meeting.  Any such Election made by an Outside Director shall be irrevocable and shall comply with Section 409A of the Code to the extent applicable unless otherwise determined by the Board.  Effective as of immediately following the Annual Meeting, the Outside Director shall receive a Restricted Stock Unit Award for that number of Shares determined by dividing (1) the product of (a) the amount of his or her annual retainer as an Outside Director covered by the Election, multiplied by (b) 1.2, by (2) the Fair Market Value of a Share on that date, rounded down to the nearest whole Share, provided that on the date of grant of any such Restricted Stock Unit Award such person is an Outside Director; and provided further that sufficient Shares are available under the Plan for the grant of such Restricted Stock Unit Award.      Such Restricted Stock Unit Award shall vest on the date of the following year s Annual Meeting of Stockholders of the Company, provided that the Participant is an Outside Director on such date. 
  (b)      Value of Restricted Stock Units  .  Each Restricted Stock Unit shall have an initial value equal to the Fair Market Value of a Share on the Grant Date.   
  (c)      Restricted Stock Unit Agreement  .  Each Award of Restricted Stock Units shall be evidenced by an Award Agreement that shall specify the vesting conditions, the number of Restricted Stock Units granted, and such other terms and conditions as the Administrator, in its sole discretion, shall determine.   
  (d)      Form and Timing of Payment of Restricted Stock Units  .  Payment of vested Restricted Stock Units shall be made as soon as practicable after vesting (subject to any deferral permitted under Section 18).  The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may pay Restricted Stock Units in the form of cash, in Shares or in a combination thereof.   
  (e)      Cancellation of Restricted Stock Units  .  On the date set forth in the Award Agreement, all unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be forfeited to the Company and, except as otherwise determined by the Administrator, again shall be available for grant under the Plan. 
  11.      Leaves of Absence  .  Unless the Administrator provides otherwise or except as otherwise required by Applicable Laws, vesting of Awards granted hereunder shall continue during any leave of absence approved by the Administrator. 
  12.      Non-Transferability of Awards  .  Unless determined otherwise by the Administrator, an Award may not be sold, pledged, assigned, hypothecated, transferred, or disposed of in any manner other than by will or by the laws of descent or distribution and may be exercised, during the lifetime of the recipient, only by the recipient.  If the Administrator makes an Award transferable, such Award shall contain such additional terms and conditions as the Administrator deems appropriate; provided, however, that such Award shall in no event be transferable for value.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant may, if the Administrator (in its discretion) so permits, transfer an Award to an individual or entity other than the Company.  Any such transfer shall be made in accordance with such procedures as the Administrator may specify from time to time.   
      -8- 

13.      Adjustments Upon Changes in Capitalization  .  
  (a)    Subject to any required action by the stockholders of the Company, the number of Shares covered by each outstanding Award, the number of Shares which have been authorized for issuance under the Plan but as to which no Awards have yet been granted or which have been returned to the Plan upon cancellation or expiration of an Award, as well as the price per Share of Common Stock covered by each such outstanding Award, shall be proportionately adjusted for any increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares resulting from a stock split, reverse stock split, stock dividend, combination or reclassification of the Common Stock, or any other increase or decrease in the number of issued Shares effected without receipt of consideration by the Company;   provided, however  , that conversion of any convertible securities of the Company shall not be deemed to have been  effected without receipt of consideration.   Such adjustment shall be made by the Compensation Committee, whose determination in that respect shall be final, binding and conclusive.  Except as expressly provided herein, no issuance by the Company of shares of stock of any class, or securities convertible into shares of stock of any class, shall affect, and no adjustment by reason thereof shall be made with respect to, the number or price of shares of Common Stock subject to an Award.  
  (b)      Dissolution or Liquidation  .  In the event of the proposed dissolution or liquidation of the Company, the Administrator shall notify each Participant as soon as practicable prior to the effective date of such proposed transaction.  The Administrator in its discretion may provide for a Participant to have the right to exercise his or her Award until ten (10) days prior to such transaction as to all of the Shares covered thereby, including Shares as to which the Award would not otherwise be exercisable.  In addition, the Administrator may provide that any Company repurchase option or forfeiture rights applicable to any Award shall lapse 100%, and that any Award vesting shall accelerate 100%, provided the proposed dissolution or liquidation takes place at the time and in the manner contemplated.  To the extent it has not been previously exercised, an Award will terminate immediately prior to the consummation of such proposed action.   
  (c)      Change of Control  .  In the event of a Change of Control, each outstanding Award shall be assumed or an equivalent Award substituted by the successor corporation or a Parent or Subsidiary of the successor corporation.   
  In the event that the successor corporation refuses to assume or substitute for the Award, the Participant shall fully vest in and have the right to exercise all of his or her outstanding Options, including Shares as to which such Awards would not otherwise be vested or exercisable, all restrictions on Restricted Stock will lapse and all Restricted Stock Units shall become fully vested.  In addition, if an Option is not assumed or substituted in the event of a Change of Control, the Administrator shall notify the Participant in writing or electronically that the Option shall be fully vested and exercisable for a period of fifteen (15) days from the date of such notice, and the Option shall terminate upon the expiration of such period.   
  For the purposes of this paragraph, an Award shall be considered assumed if, following the Change of Control, the Award confers the right to purchase or receive, for each Share subject to the Award immediately prior to the Change of Control, the consideration (whether stock, cash, or other securities or property) received in the Change of Control by holders of Common Stock for each Share held on the effective date of the transaction (and if holders were offered a choice of consideration, the type of consideration chosen by the holders of a majority of the outstanding Shares);   provided, however  , that if such consideration received in the Change of Control is not solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent, the Administrator may, with the consent of the successor corporation, provide for the consideration to be received upon the exercise of an Option or upon the payout of the Restricted Stock Unit Award, for each Share subject to the Award, to be solely common stock of the successor corporation or its Parent equal in fair market value to the per share consideration received by holders of Common Stock in the Change of Control.   
      -9- 

14.      Amendment and Termination of the Plan  . 
  (a)      Amendment and Termination  .  Subject to Section 8(d) hereof, the Board may at any time amend, alter, suspend or terminate the Plan; provided, however, that to the extent necessary and desirable to comply with any Applicable Law, the Company shall obtain stockholder approval of any Plan amendment in such a manner and to such a degree as required. 
  (b)      Effect of Amendment or Termination  .  No amendment, alteration, suspension or termination of the Plan shall impair the rights of any Participant, unless mutually agreed otherwise between the Participant and the Administrator, which agreement must be in writing (or electronic format) and signed by the Participant and the Company. 
  15.      Conditions Upon Issuance of Shares  .   
  (a)      Legal Compliance  .  Shares shall not be issued pursuant to the exercise of an Award unless the exercise of such Award and the issuance and delivery of such Shares shall comply with Applicable Laws and shall be further subject to the approval of counsel for the Company with respect to such compliance.  
  (b)      Investment Representations  .  As a condition to the exercise or receipt of Shares pursuant to an Award, the Company may require the person exercising or receiving Shares pursuant to an Award to represent and warrant at the time of any such exercise or receipt that the Shares are being purchased only for investment and without any present intention to sell or distribute such Shares if, in the opinion of counsel for the Company, such a representation is required. 
  16.      Liability of Company  . 
  (a)      Inability to Obtain Authority  .  The inability of the Company to obtain authority from any regulatory body having jurisdiction, which authority is deemed by the Company s counsel to be necessary to the lawful issuance and sale of any Shares hereunder, shall relieve the Company of any liability in respect of the failure to issue or sell such Shares as to which such requisite authority shall not have been obtained. 
  (b)      Grants Exceeding Allotted Shares  .  If the Shares covered by an Award exceed, as of the Date of Grant, the number of Shares which may be issued under the Plan without additional stockholder approval, such Award shall be void with respect to such excess Shares, unless stockholder approval of an amendment sufficiently increasing the number of Shares subject to the Plan is timely obtained in accordance with Section 14(b) of the Plan. 
  17.      Reservation of Shares  .  The Company, during the term of this Plan, will at all times reserve and keep available such number of Shares as shall be sufficient to satisfy the requirements of the Plan.   
  18.      Deferrals  .  The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash or the delivery of Shares that would otherwise be due to such Participant under an Award.  Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Administrator in its sole discretion.   
  19.      Participation  .  No Outside Director shall have the right to be selected to receive an Award under this Plan, or, having been so selected, to be selected to receive a future Award.   
  20.      No Rights as Stockholder  .  Except to the limited extent provided in Sections 9(f) or 9(g), no Participant (nor any beneficiary) shall have any of the rights or privileges of a stockholder of the Company with respect to any Shares issuable pursuant to an Award (or exercise thereof), unless and until such Shares shall have been issued, recorded on the records of the Company or its transfer agents or registrars, and delivered to the Participant (or beneficiary).   
  21.      Section 409A  . To the extent that the Administrator determines that any Award granted under the Plan is subject to Section 409A of the Code, the program pursuant to which such Award is granted and the Award Agreement evidencing such Award shall incorporate the terms and conditions required by Section 409A of the Code. To the extent applicable, the Plan and any Award Agreements shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code and Department of Treasury regulations and other interpretive guidance issued thereunder, including without limitation any such regulations or other guidance that may be issued after the Effective Date. Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan  
      -10- 

or the applicable Award Agreement to the contrary, in the event that following the Effective Date the Administrator determines that any Award may be subject to Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance (including such Department of Treasury guidance as may be issued after the Effective Date), the Administrator may adopt such amendments to the Plan and the applicable Award Agreement or adopt other policies and procedures (including amendments, policies and procedures with retroactive effect), or take any other actions, that the Administrator determines are necessary or appropriate to (a) exempt the Award from Section 409A of the Code and/or preserve the intended tax treatment of the benefits provided with respect to the Award, or (b) comply with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code and related Department of Treasury guidance and thereby avoid the application of any penalty taxes under such Section.  
  22.      Indemnification  .  Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any Award Agreement, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf.  The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company s Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.   
  23.      Successors  .  All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to Awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.   
  24.      Gender and Number  .  Except where otherwise indicated by the context, any masculine term used herein also shall include the feminine; the plural shall include the singular and the singular shall include the plural. 
  25.      Severability  .  In the event any provision of the Plan shall be held illegal or invalid for any reason, the illegality or invalidity shall not affect the remaining parts of the Plan, and the Plan shall be construed and enforced as if the illegal or invalid provision had not been included.   
  26.      Governing Law  .  The Plan and all Award Agreements shall be construed in accordance with and governed by the laws of the State of California (with the exception of its conflict of laws provisions).   
  27.      Captions  .  Captions are provided herein for convenience only, and shall not serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of the Plan. 
    
      -11- 

</EX-10.21>

<EX-10.23>
 3
 adsk01312016ex1023.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.23

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.23 
    
  AUTODESK, INC. 
  EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN 
  AS AMENDED AND RESTATED APRIL 19, 2014  
  1)       Purposes of the Plan  . This Autodesk, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan sets forth the plan for payment of cash bonuses to those executive officers of the Company designated for participation and is intended to increase stockholder value and the success of the Company by motivating executives to perform to the best of their abilities and to achieve the Company s objectives.  The Plan s goals are to be achieved by providing such executives with incentive awards based on the achievement of goals relating to the performance of the Company or one of its business units or upon the achievement of objectively determinable performance goals.  The Plan is intended to permit the payment of bonuses that may qualify as Performance-Based Compensation as well as of bonuses which are not intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.  The Plan, as amended and restated as of April 19, 2014, is effective with respect to Awards relating to fiscal years 2016 and later.  Awards with respect to fiscal years prior to fiscal year 2016 shall be governed by the terms of the Autodesk, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan as in effect immediately prior to this amendment and restatement. 
  2)       Definitions  .  
  (a)       Annual Revenue    means the Company s or a business unit s net sales for the Fiscal Year, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
  (b)       Award    means, with respect to each Participant, the award determined pursuant to Section 8(a) below for a Performance Period.  Each Award is determined by a Payout Formula for a Performance Period, subject to the Committee s authority under Section 8(a) to eliminate or reduce the Award otherwise payable.  
  (c)       Base Salary    means, as to any Performance Period, the Participant s annualized salary rate on the last day of the Performance Period.  Such Base Salary shall be before both (a) deductions for taxes or benefits, and (b) deferrals of compensation pursuant to Company-sponsored plans.  
  (d)       Board    means the Board of Directors of the Company.  
  (e)       Cash Position    means the Company s level of cash and cash equivalents.  
  (f)       Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  
  (g)       Committee    means the Compensation and Human Resources Committee of the Board, or a sub-committee of the Compensation and Human Resources Committee, which shall, with respect to payments hereunder intended to qualify as performance-based compensation under Code Section 162(m), consist solely of two or more members of the Board who are not employees of the Company and who otherwise qualify as  outside directors  within the meaning of Section 162(m).  
  (h)       Company    means Autodesk, Inc. or any of its subsidiaries (as such term is defined in Code Section 424(f)).  
  (i)       Earnings Per Share    means, as to any Fiscal Year, the Company s or a business unit s Net Income, divided by a weighted average number of common shares outstanding and dilutive common equivalent shares deemed outstanding, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
  (j)       Fiscal Year    means a fiscal year of the Company.  
  (k)       Maximum Award    means as to any Participant for any Performance Period, $4 million.  
  (l)       Net Income    means, as to any Fiscal Year, the income after taxes of the Company for the Fiscal Year determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
  (m)       Operating Cash Flow    means the Company s or a business unit s sum of Net Income plus depreciation and amortization less capital expenditures plus changes in working capital comprised of accounts receivable, inventories, other  

current assets, trade accounts payable, accrued expenses, product warranty, advance payments from customers and long-term accrued expenses, determined in accordance with generally acceptable accounting principles.  
  (n)       Operating Margins    means the ratio of Operating Income to Annual Revenue.  
  (o)       Operating Income    means the Company s or a business unit s income from operations determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
  (p)       Participant    means an eligible executive or key employee of the Company selected by the Committee, in its sole discretion, to participate in the Plan for a Performance Period.  
  (q)       Payout Determination Date    means the date upon which the Committee determines the amounts payable pursuant to the Target Award and Payout Formula with respect to any previously completed Performance Period, in accordance with Section 8(a).  
  (r)       Payout Formula    means, as to any Performance Period, the formula or payout matrix established by the Committee pursuant to Section 7 in order to determine the Awards (if any) to be paid to Participants, which is generally expressed as a percentage (which may be more than 100%) of the Target Award.  The formula or matrix may differ from Participant to Participant.  
  (s)       Performance-Based Compensation    means compensation that is intended to qualify as  performance-based compensation  within the meaning of Section 162(m).  
  (t)       Performance Goals    means the goal(s) (or combined goal(s)) determined by the Committee (in its discretion) to be applicable to a Participant with respect to an Award.  As determined by the Committee, the Performance Goals applicable to an Award may provide for a targeted level or levels of achievement using one or more of the following measures: (a) Annual Revenue, (b) Cash Position, (c) Earnings Per Share, (d) Net Income, (e) Operating Cash Flow, (f) Operating Margins, (g) Operating Income, (h) Return on Assets, (i) Return on Equity, (j) Return on Sales, (k) Total Stockholder Return, (l) recurring revenue (including annualized), (m) bookings, (n) billings, (o) number of customers, (p) objective customer indicators, (q) expenses, (r) cost reduction goals, (s) economic value added, (t) cash flow (including operating cash flow or free cash flow), (u) cash flow per share and (v) sales or revenue targets, including product or product family targets.  The Performance Goals may be based on absolute target numbers or growth in one or more such categories compared to a prior period.  The measures which constitute the Performance Goals may, at the discretion of the Committee, be based on Pro Forma numbers and may, as the Committee specifies, either include or exclude the effect of payment of the bonuses under this Plan and any other bonus plans of the Company.  The Performance Goals may differ from Participant to Participant and from Award to Award.  In establishing a Performance Goal on the Target Determination Date, the Committee may provide that the attainment of the Performance Goal shall be measured by appropriately adjusting the evaluation of Performance Goal performance to exclude (i) any extraordinary non-recurring items as described in Accounting Principles Board Opinion No. 30 (or any successor thereto) and/or in management s discussion and analysis of financial conditions and results of operations appearing in the Company s annual report to stockholders for the applicable year, or (ii) the effect of any changes in accounting principles affecting the Company s or a business unit s reported results.  None of the actions taken by the Committee in accordance with this Section 2(t) shall cause any compensation which is intended to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation to fail to so qualify. 
  (u)       Performance Period    means any Fiscal Year or such other period as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  
  (v)       Plan    means this Autodesk, Inc. Executive Incentive Plan.  
  (w)       Plan Year    means the Company s fiscal year.  
  (x)       Pro Forma    means calculation of a Performance Goal in a manner that excludes extraordinary or one-time expenses or credits, such as restructuring expenses, extraordinary tax events, expenses or credits related to stock options and/or other equity compensation or the like, instead of conforming to generally accepted accounting principles.  
  (y)       Return on Assets    means the percentage equal to the Company s or a business unit s Operating Income before incentive compensation, divided by average net Company or business unit, as applicable, assets, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  

(z)       Return on Equity    means the percentage equal to the Company s Net Income divided by average stockholder s equity, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
  (aa)       Return on Sales    means the percentage equal to the Company s or a business unit s Operating Income before incentive compensation, divided by the Company s or the business unit s, as applicable, revenue, determined in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
  (bb)       Section 162(m)    means Section 162(m) of the Code, or any successor to Section 162(m), as that Section may be interpreted from time to time by the Internal Revenue Service, whether by regulation, notice or otherwise.  
  (cc)       Target Award    means the target award payable under the Plan to a Participant for the Performance Period, expressed as a percentage of his or her Base Salary or a specific dollar amount, as determined by the Committee in accordance with Section 6.  
  (dd)       Target Determination Cutoff Date    means the latest possible date that will not jeopardize a Target Award s qualification as Performance-Based Compensation.  
  (ee)       Target Determination Date    means the date upon which the Committee sets the Target Award and Payout Formula with respect to any Performance Period, in accordance with Section 7.  
  (ff)       Total Stockholder Return    means the total return (change in share price plus reinvestment of any dividends) of a share of the Company s common stock.  
  3)       Plan Administration  .  
  (a)    The Committee shall be responsible for the general administration and interpretation of the Plan and for carrying out its provisions.  Subject to the requirements for qualifying compensation as Performance-Based Compensation, the Committee may delegate specific administrative tasks to Company employees or others as appropriate for proper administration of the Plan.  Subject to the limitations on Committee discretion imposed under Section 162(m) to the extent the Committee intends that bonuses payable hereunder constitute performance-based compensation under Section 162(m), the Committee shall have such powers as may be necessary to discharge its duties hereunder, including, but not by way of limitation, the following powers and duties, but subject to the terms of the Plan:  
  i)     discretionary authority to adopt Target Awards and Payout Formulae under this Plan for a given Performance Period on or prior to the Target Determination Cutoff Date;  
  ii)    discretionary authority to construe and interpret the terms of the Plan, and to determine eligibility, Awards and the amount, manner and time of payment of any Awards hereunder;  
  iii)    to prescribe forms and procedures for purposes of Plan participation and distribution of Awards; and  
  iv)    to adopt rules, regulations and bylaws and to take such actions as it deems necessary or desirable for the proper administration of the Plan.  
  (b)    Any rule or decision by the Committee that is not inconsistent with the provisions of the Plan shall be conclusive and binding on all persons, and shall be given the maximum deference permitted by law.  
  4)       Eligibility  .  The employees eligible to participate in the Plan for a given Performance Period shall be determined by the Committee, and are generally expected to include executive officers of the Company who are subject to Section 16 of the Securities and Exchange Act of 1934 and any other key employees who are specifically designated by the Committee for participation in the Plan in its sole discretion.  Executives who earn sales commissions are generally not included in the Plan.  Unless specifically excepted, a Participant must be actively employed on the last day of the Performance Period to be eligible to receive a payment hereunder.  No person shall be automatically entitled to participate in the Plan.  
  5)       Performance Goal Determination  .  On the Target Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish the Performance Goals for each Participant for the Performance Period.  Such Performance Goals shall be set forth in writing on or prior to the Target Determination Cutoff Date.  

6)       Target Award Determination  .  On the Target Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Target Award for each Participant.  Each Participant s Target Award shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion, and each Target Award shall be set forth in writing on or prior to the Target Determination Cutoff Date.  
  7)       Determination of Payout Formula  .  On the Target Determination Date, the Committee, in its sole discretion, shall establish a Payout Formula for purposes of determining the Award (if any) payable to each Participant.  Each Payout Formula (a) shall be set forth in writing on or prior to the Target Determination Cutoff Date, (b) shall provide for the payment of a Participant s Award if the Performance Goals for the Performance Period are achieved, and (c) may provide for an Award payment greater than or less than the Participant s Target Award, depending upon the extent to which the Performance Goals are achieved.  Notwithstanding the preceding, in no event shall a Participant s Award for any Performance Period exceed the Maximum Award.  
  8)       Payout Determination; Award Payment  .  
  (a)      Payout Determination and Certification  .  On the Payout Determination Date, the Committee shall certify in writing (which may be by approval of the minutes in which the certification was made) the extent to which the Performance Goals applicable to each Participant for the Performance Period were achieved or exceeded.  The Award for each Participant shall be determined by applying the Payout Formula to the level of actual performance that has been certified by the Committee.  Notwithstanding any contrary provision of the Plan, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may eliminate or reduce the Award payable to any Participant below that which otherwise would be payable under the Payout Formula.  
  (b)      Right to Receive Payment  .  Each Award under the Plan shall be paid solely from the general assets of the Company.  Nothing in this Plan shall be construed to create a trust or to establish or evidence any Participant s claim of any right to payment of an Award other than as an unsecured general creditor with respect to any payment to which he or she may be entitled.   
  (c)      Form of Distributions  .  The Company shall distribute all Awards to the Participant in cash.  
  (d)      Timing of Distributions  .  Subject to Section 8(e) below, the Company shall distribute amounts payable to Participants as soon as is practicable following the determination and written certification of the Award for a Performance Period, but in no event later than 2   months after the end of the applicable Performance Period.  
  (e)      Deferral; Section 409A  .  The Committee may defer payment of Awards, or any portion thereof, to Participants as the Committee, in its discretion, determines to be necessary or desirable to preserve the deductibility of such amounts under Section 162(m).  In addition, the Committee, in its sole discretion, may permit a Participant to defer receipt of the payment of cash that would otherwise be delivered to a Participant under the Plan.  Any such deferral elections shall be subject to such rules and procedures as shall be determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.   The Company intends that the Plan comply in form and operation with Section 409A of the Code.  Accordingly, to the maximum extent permitted, this Plan shall be interpreted and administered to be in compliance therewith.  However, the Company makes no representation that any or all of the payments under the Plan will be exempt from or comply with Section 409A of the Code.  Each amount to be paid under the Plan shall be construed as a separate identified payment for purposes of Section 409A of the Code.  Without limiting the foregoing and notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, to the extent required in order to avoid an accelerated or additional tax under Section 409A of the Code, amounts that would otherwise be payable and benefits that would otherwise be provided pursuant to this Plan during the six-month period immediately following a Participant's termination of employment shall instead be paid on the first business day after the date that is six months following such termination of employment (or, if earlier, the Participant s date of death).  
  9)       Non-Performance-Based Compensation Bonuses  .  Notwithstanding and without regard to any other provision in this Plan, the Committee may determine to pay cash bonuses hereunder that are not intended to constitute Performance-Based Compensation and which shall be payable pursuant to such terms and conditions as the Committee may determine in its sole discretion; provided, however, that in no event shall payment of a bonus hereunder that is not intended to be Performance-Based Compensation be contingent upon failure to achieve the performance goals under an otherwise performance-based arrangement, in accordance with Section 1.162-27(e)(2)(v) of the regulations promulgated under Section 162(m).   
  10)      Term of Plan  .  The Plan was approved by the Company s stockholders on June 23, 2005, and shall continue until terminated under Section 11 of the Plan.  

11)      Amendment and Termination of the Plan  .  The Committee may amend, modify, suspend or terminate the Plan, in whole or in part, at any time, including adopting amendments deemed necessary or desirable to correct any defect or to supply omitted data or to reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan or in any Award granted hereunder; provided, however, that no amendment, alteration, suspension or discontinuation shall be made which would (i) impair any payments to Participants made prior to such amendment, modification, suspension or termination, unless the Committee has made a determination that such amendment or modification is in the best interests of all persons to whom Awards have theretofore been granted; provided further, however, that in no event may such an amendment or modification result in an increase in the amount of compensation payable pursuant to such Award or (ii) cause compensation that is, or may become, payable hereunder to fail to qualify as Performance-Based Compensation.  To the extent necessary or advisable under applicable law, including Section 162(m), Plan amendments shall be subject to stockholder approval.  At no time before the actual distribution of funds to Participants under the Plan shall any Participant accrue any vested interest or right whatsoever under the Plan except as otherwise stated in this Plan.  
  12)      Withholding  .  Distributions pursuant to this Plan shall be subject to all applicable federal and state tax and withholding requirements.  
  13)      At-Will Employment  .  No statement in this Plan should be construed to grant any employee an employment contract of fixed duration or any other contractual rights, nor should this Plan be interpreted as creating an implied or an expressed contract of employment or any other contractual rights between the Company and its employees.  The employment relationship between the Company and its employees is terminable at-will.  This means that an employee of the Company may terminate the employment relationship at any time and for any reason or no reason.  
  14)      Successors  .  All obligations of the Company under the Plan, with respect to awards granted hereunder, shall be binding on any successor to the Company, whether the existence of such successor is the result of a direct or indirect purchase, merger, consolidation, or otherwise, of all or substantially all of the business or assets of the Company.  
  15)      Indemnification  .  Each person who is or shall have been a member of the Committee, or of the Board, shall be indemnified and held harmless by the Company against and from (a) any loss, cost, liability, or expense that may be imposed upon or reasonably incurred by him or her in connection with or resulting from any claim, action, suit, or proceeding to which he or she may be a party or in which he or she may be involved by reason of any action taken or failure to act under the Plan or any award, and (b) from any and all amounts paid by him or her in settlement thereof, with the Company s approval, or paid by him or her in satisfaction of any judgment in any such claim, action, suit, or proceeding against him or her, provided he or she shall give the Company an opportunity, at its own expense, to handle and defend the same before he or she undertakes to handle and defend it on his or her own behalf.  The foregoing right of indemnification shall not be exclusive of any other rights of indemnification to which such persons may be entitled under the Company s Certificate of Incorporation or Bylaws, by contract, as a matter of law, or otherwise, or under any power that the Company may have to indemnify them or hold them harmless.  
  16)      Nonassignment  .  The rights of a Participant under this Plan shall not be assignable or transferable by the Participant except by will or the laws of intestacy.  
  17)      Governing Law  .  The Plan shall be governed by the laws of the State of California.  

</EX-10.23>

<EX-21.1>
 4
 adsk01312016ex211.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.1 

SUBSIDIARIES OF AUTODESK, INC.,  
  a Delaware Corporation  
  as of January 31, 2015 
    
                   Subsidiary Name 
      
    Jurisdiction of Incorporation 
      ADSK Ireland Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Autodesk (China) Software Research and Development Co., Ltd. 

China 
      Autodesk (EMEA) S rl 
      
    Switzerland 
      Autodesk AB 
      
    Sweden 
      Autodesk ApS 
      
    Denmark 
      Autodesk Asia Pte Ltd 
      
    Singapore 
      Autodesk Australia Pty Ltd. 
      
    Australia 
      Autodesk B.V. 
      
    The Netherlands 
      Autodesk Canada Co. 
      
    Canada 
      Autodesk Colombia S.A.S. 
      
    Colombia 
      Autodesk DC B.V. 
      
    The Netherlands 
      Autodesk DC Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Autodesk de Argentina S.A. 
      
    Argentina 
      Autodesk de Mexico, S.A. de C.V. 
      
    Mexico 
      Autodesk de Venezuela, S.A. 
      
    Venezuela 
      Autodesk Development B.V. 
      
    The Netherlands 
      Autodesk Development S.  r.l. 
      
    Switzerland 
      Autodesk Direct Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Autodesk do Brasil Ltda 
      
    Brazil 
      Autodesk ehf. 
      
    Iceland 
      Autodesk Far East Ltd. 
      
    Hong Kong 
      Autodesk France 
      
    France 
      Autodesk Ges.mbH 
      
    Austria 
      Autodesk GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Autodesk Hungary Kft 
      
    Hungary 
      Autodesk India Private Limited 
      
    India 
      Autodesk International Holding Co. 
      
    U.S. 
      Autodesk Israel Ltd. 
      
    Israel 
      Autodesk Korea Ltd. 
      
    South Korea 
      Autodesk Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Autodesk Limited 
      
    Saudi Arabia 
      Autodesk Ltd. Japan 
      
    Japan 
      Autodesk S.r.l. 
      
    Italy 
      Autodesk S.R.L. 
      
    Romania 
      Autodesk SA 
      
    Switzerland 
      Autodesk Software (China) Co., Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Autodesk Software, Unipessoal, Lda. 
      
    Portugal 
      Autodesk Sp. z.o.o. 
      
    Poland 
      Autodesk Spol. S.R.O. 
      
    Czech Republic 
      Autodesk Strategies Ltd. 
      
    China 
      Autodesk Taiwan Limited 
      
    Taiwan 

1 

Autodesk Yazilim Hizmetleri Ticaret Limited Sirketi (Autodesk Limited Sirketi) 
      
    Turkey 
      Autodesk, S.A. 
      
    Spain 
      Configure One, Inc. 
      
    U.S. 
      Configure One Europe Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Configure One Holdings Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Creative Market Labs, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Delcam Limited* 
      
    United Kingdom 
      Firehole Technologies, Inc. 
      
    U.S. 
      Graitec GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      Graitec SAS 
      
    France 
      Hanna Strategies Holdings, Inc. 
      
    U.S. 
      Limited Liability Company Autodesk (CIS) 
      
    Russia 
      Magestic Systems, Inc. 
      
    U.S. 
      Moldflow B.V. 
      
    The Netherlands 
      Moldflow International Pty Ltd. 
      
    Australia 
      Moldflow Netherlands Limited 
      
    Ireland 
      Moldflow Pty Ltd. 
      
    Australia 
      Moldflow Singapore Pte Ltd 
      
    Singapore 
      netfabb GmbH 
      
    Germany 
      netfabb, Inc. 
      
    U.S. 
      SeeControl, Inc. 
      
    U.S. 
      SCI Topole 
      
    France 
      Shotgun Software Inc. 
      
    U.S. 
      Within Technologies 
      
    United Kingdom 

* Delcam Limited, a wholly-owned subsidiary of   Autodesk Development B.V.   and a   supplier of advanced CADCAM and industrial measurement solutions for the manufacturing industry, has a total of 37 global subsidiaries, three of which are operating in the United States and 34 of which are operating in foreign countries. 

2 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 5
 adsk01312016ex231.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.1 
    
  CONSENT OF 
  INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements: 

of our reports dated   March 23, 2016  , with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Autodesk, Inc., and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Autodesk, Inc., included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K) of Autodesk, Inc. for the year ended   January 31, 2016  . 
    
  /s/ E  RNST     Y  OUNG   LLP 
    
  San Francisco, California 
  March 23, 2016    

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 6
 adsk01312016ex311.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1  
  CERTIFICATIONS  
  I, Carl Bass, certify that:  
           1. 
    I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Autodesk, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
                      
    /s/ C  ARL   B  ASS 
        
    Carl Bass 
        
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 

Date:   March 23, 2016    

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 7
 adsk01312016ex312.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2  
  CERTIFICATIONS  
  I, R. Scott Herren, certify that:  
           1. 
    I have reviewed this report on Form 10-K of Autodesk, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/ R. SCOTT HERREN 
        
    R. Scott Herren 
        
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 

Date:   March 23, 2016    

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 8
 adsk01312016ex321.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.1  
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER  
  PURSUANT TO  
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350,  
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO  
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
  Based on my knowledge, I, Carl Bass, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Autodesk, Inc. on Form 10-K for the annual period ended   January 31, 2016   fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Autodesk, Inc.  
                   
    /s/ C  ARL   B  ASS 
        
    Carl Bass 
        
    President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) 

March 23, 2016    

Based on my knowledge, I, R. Scott Herren, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Autodesk, Inc. on Form 10-K for the annual period ended   January 31, 2016   fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Form 10-K fairly presents in all material respects the financial condition and results of operations of Autodesk, Inc.  
                   
    /s/ R. SCOTT HERREN 
        
    R. Scott Herren 
        
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
        
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

March 23, 2016    

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 adsk-20160131.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 adsk-20160131.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 adsk-20160131_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 adsk-20160131_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 adsk-20160131_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 adsk-20160131_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

