<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170804_10-K_edgar_data_8670_0000008670-17-000010_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>16117543</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>476928</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>811003</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>6021638</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>6382859</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2076070</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>80</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>15</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000008670-17-000010.hdr.sgml : 20170804
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170804162232
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000008670-17-000010
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		113
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20170630
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170804
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170804

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000008670
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION [7374]
		IRS NUMBER:				221467904
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0630

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-05397
		FILM NUMBER:		171008902

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE ADP BOULVARD
		CITY:			ROSELAND
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07068
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9739745000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		ONE ADP BOULEVARD
		CITY:			ROSELAND
		STATE:			NJ
		ZIP:			07068

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000008670-17-000010.txt : 20170804

10-K
 1
 q4fy1710k.htm

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
    
  FORM 10-K    

  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
                 Delaware 
    22-1467904 
      (State or other jurisdiction of incorporation or organization) 
    (IRS Employer Identification No.) 

One ADP Boulevard, Roseland, New Jersey 
    07068    
      (Address of principal executive offices) 
    (Zip Code) 

Registrant's telephone number, including area code:   973-974-5000 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
      
      Title of each class 
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Common Stock, $0.10 Par Value 
  (voting) 
    NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:   None  
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. Yes [  x  ] No [ ] 
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. Yes [ ] No [  x  ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to the filing requirements for the past 90 days. Yes [  x  ] No [ ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). Yes [  x  ] No [ ] 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 229.405) is not contained herein and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K. [  x  ] 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, smaller reporting company, or an emerging growth company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,   smaller reporting company,  and "emerging growth company" in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.                   Large accelerated filer [  x  ] 
      
    Accelerated filer [ ] 
      Non-accelerated filer [ ] 
    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
    Smaller reporting company [ ] 
      Emerging growth company [ ] 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.  [ ]  
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Act).  Yes [ ]  No [  x  ] 
  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of the last business day of the Registrant s most recently completed second fiscal quarter was approximately   $39,603,050,847  .  On   July 31, 2017   there were   444,374,752   shares of Common Stock outstanding. 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE    
                 Portions of the Registrant's Proxy Statement for its 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders. 
    Part III 

Table of Contents 

Page 
      Part I 

Item 1. 
    Business 
    3 
      Item 1A.  
    Risk Factors 
    9 
      Item 1B. 
    Unresolved Staff Comments 
    15 
      Item 2. 
    Properties 
    15 
      Item 3. 
    Legal Proceedings 
    15 
      Item 4. 
    Mine Safety Disclosures 
    15 

Part II 

Item 5. 
    Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    16 
      Item 6. 
    Selected Financial Data 
    19 
      Item 7. 
    Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
    22 
      Item 7A. 
    Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
    41 
      Item 8. 
    Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
    42 
      Item 9. 
    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
    80 
      Item 9A.  
    Controls and Procedures 
    80 
      Item 9B. 
    Other Information 
    84 

Part III 

Item 10. 
    Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
    85 
      Item 11.  
    Executive Compensation 
    87 
      Item 12.  
    Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
    87 
      Item 13.  
    Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
    87 
      Item 14. 
    Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
    87 

Part IV. 

Item 15. 
    Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
    87 
      Signatures 
      
    92 

2 

Part I 
   
  Item 1. Business 
  CORPORATE BACKGROUND 
  General 
    
  ADP was founded in 1949 on an innovative idea: to help business owners focus on core business activities by relieving them of certain administrative tasks such as payroll.  Automatic Data Processing, Inc. was incorporated in the State of Delaware in June 1961 and completed its initial public offering in September 1961.  A pioneer in business process outsourcing, today we are one of the world s leading providers of human capital management ( HCM ) solutions to employers, offering solutions to businesses of all sizes, whether they have simple or complex needs.  We serve approximately 700,000 clients in more than 110 countries and territories.  Our common stock is listed on the NASDAQ Global Select Market  under the symbol  ADP.  
  When we refer to  we,   us,   our,   ADP,  or the  Company  in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, we mean Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
  Available Information 
  Our corporate website,   www.adp.com  , provides materials for investors and information about our solutions and services.  ADP s Annual Reports on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, all amendments to those reports, and the Proxy Statements for our Annual Meetings of Stockholders are made available, free of charge, on our corporate website as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) and are also available on the SEC s website at   www.sec.gov  .  The content on any website referenced in this filing is not incorporated by reference into this filing unless expressly noted otherwise. 
  BUSINESS OVERVIEW 
  ADP     s Mission and Strategy 
  ADP s mission is to power organizations with insightful solutions that drive business success.  Our commitment to service excellence is at the core of our relationship with each one of our clients, whether a small, mid-sized or large organization operating in one or multiple countries around the world.  We innovate to deliver new solutions that anticipate and meet client needs in all of our markets.  We help businesses focus on and optimize their most important investment       their people.  From recruitment to talent management to retirement, our combination of expertise and technology offers insights that help our clients leverage HCM to drive better business results. 
  Our business strategy is based on the following three strategic pillars, which are designed to position ADP as the global market leader in technology-enabled HCM services: 
             
    Grow a complete suite of cloud-based HCM solutions; 
                
    Grow and scale our market-leading Human Resources ( HR ) Business Process Outsourcing solutions by leveraging our platforms and processes; and 
                
    Leverage our global presence to offer clients HCM solutions where they do business. 
       
  Reportable Segments 
  ADP s two reportable business segments are Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization ( PEO ) Services.  For financial data by segment and by geographic area, see Note 15 to the  Consolidated Financial Statements  contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Employer Services  .  Our Employer Services segment offers a comprehensive range of HR Business Process Outsourcing and technology-enabled HCM solutions.  These offerings include: 
             
    Payroll Services 
                
    Benefits Administration 
                
    Talent Management 
                
    HR Management 
     
   3 

Time and Attendance Management 
                
    Insurance Services 
                
    Retirement Services 
                
    Tax and Compliance Services 
       
  Employer Services serves clients ranging from single-employee small businesses to large enterprises with tens of thousands of employees around the world. 
  Professional Employer Organization Services  .  ADP s PEO business, called ADP TotalSource       , serves more than 10,700 clients with comprehensive employment administration outsourcing solutions through a relationship in which employees who work for a client (referred to as  worksite employees ) are co-employed by us and the client.  ADP TotalSource is the largest PEO in the United States based on the number of worksite employees, serving more than 490,000 worksite employees in all 50 states, and operates as a Certified Professional Employer Organization under the Internal Revenue Code. 
  PRODUCTS AND SERVICES 
    
  Employer Services  Products and Services 
    
  Human Capital Management.    In order to serve the unique needs of diverse types of businesses, ADP provides a range of solutions, via a software- and service-based delivery model, which businesses of all types and sizes can use to recruit, pay, manage, and retain employees.  We serve more than 570,000 clients via ADP s cloud-based strategic software as a service ( SaaS ) offerings.  As a leader in the growing HR Business Process Outsourcing market, we offer seamless outsourcing solutions that enable our clients to outsource their HR, time and attendance, payroll, benefits administration and talent management functions to ADP, and through the ADP DataCloud we provide clients with in-depth, data-driven workforce and business insights.  Through the ADP DataCloud, we provide clients with a workforce intelligence engine that enables them to make critical HR decisions that power workforce and business productivity, performance and alignment.  In addition, our mobile applications enable businesses to process their payroll, and give approximately 12 million of our clients  employees convenient access to their HR information, via multiple mobile device platforms, around the world and in more than 27 languages.  ADP has also opened access to developers and system integrators to certain of our platforms  Application Programming Interface libraries through the ADP Marketplace.  With ADP Marketplace, clients can integrate employee data from ADP core services across their other business systems, providers or platforms.  This access enables the exchange of client data housed in ADP's databases in order to create a unified HCM ecosystem for clients informed by a single repository of their workforce data. 
  Integrated HCM Solutions.      Our premier suite of HCM products offers complete solutions that assist employers of all types and sizes in all stages of the employment cycle, from recruitment to retirement: 
             
    RUN Powered by ADP  is used by more than 510,000 small businesses in the United States.  It combines a software platform for managing small business payroll, HR management and tax compliance administration, with 24/7 service and support from our team of small business experts.  RUN Powered by ADP also integrates with other ADP solutions, such as time and attendance management, workers  compensation insurance premium payment plans, and certain retirement plans. 

ADP Workforce Now  is a flexible HCM solution used by more than 60,000 mid-sized businesses to manage their employees.  More businesses use ADP Workforce Now than any other HCM solution designed for mid-sized businesses. 

ADP Vantage HCM  is a solution for large enterprises in the United States.  It offers a comprehensive set of HCM capabilities within a single solution that unifies the five major areas of HCM: HR management, benefits administration, payroll services, time and attendance management, and talent management. 

ADP  GlobalView  HCM is a solution for multinational organizations of all sizes.  As an integrated and flexible infrastructure supported by a team of experts, ADP GlobalView HCM allows companies of all sizes   from those with small and mid-sized operations to the largest multinational corporations   to standardize their HCM strategies globally (including payroll, HR, talent, time and labor, and benefits management) and adapt to changing local needs, while helping to drive overall organizational agility and engagement.  

4 

Outside the United States, ADP offers comprehensive HCM solutions on local, country-specific platforms. These suites of services offer various combinations of payroll services, HR management, time and attendance management, talent management and benefits management, depending on the country in which the solution is provided. 
       
  Payroll Services.    ADP pays approximately 26 million (approximately 1 out of every 6) workers in the United States, and approximately 13 million workers outside the United States.  ADP provides flexible payroll services to employers of all sizes, including the preparation of employee paychecks, pay statements, supporting journals, summaries, and management reports.  ADP provides employers with a wide range of payroll options, including entering their payroll data online with an Internet-based solution or via a mobile device, and outsourcing their entire payroll process to ADP.  ADP also enables its clients to connect their major enterprise resource planning ( ERP ) applications with ADP s payroll services.  Employers can choose a variety of payroll payment options ranging from professionally printed checks to ADP s electronic wage payment and, in the United States, payroll card solutions.  On behalf of our clients in the United States, ADP prepares and files federal, state and local payroll tax returns and quarterly and annual Social Security, Medicare, and federal, state and local income tax withholding reports, and prepares and files similar reports internationally.  In addition, as part of our payroll services globally, ADP supplies year-end regulatory and legislative tax statements and other forms to our clients  employees.  For those clients in the United States who choose to process payroll in-house, ADP also offers our Tax and Compliance Solutions described below. 
  Benefits Administration  .  In the United States, ADP provides flexible solutions for outsourced employee benefits administration.  Employee benefits administration options in the United States include health and welfare administration, leave administration services, insurance carrier enrollment services, employee communication services, and dependent verification services.  In addition, ADP benefits administration solutions offer employers an efficient cloud-based eligibility and enrollment system that provides their employees with tools, communications, and other resources they need to understand their benefits options and make informed choices. 
  Talent Management  .  ADP s Talent Management solutions simplify and improve the talent acquisition, management, and activation process from recruitment to ongoing employee engagement and development.  ADP s talent acquisition solutions help employers recruit, screen and on-board talent quickly and cost effectively.  Employers can also meet their hiring needs by outsourcing their internal recruitment function to ADP.  ADP s talent management solutions provide performance, learning, succession and compensation management tools that help employers align goals to outcomes, while enabling managers to identify and mitigate potential retention risks.  ADP s talent activation solutions include research-based tools that drive employee engagement and leadership development, which in turn help clients drive employee performance and reliably measure the impact in relation to business outcomes. 
  Human Resources Management  .  Commonly referred to as Human Resource Information Systems (HRIS), ADP s Human Resources Management Solutions provide employers with a single system of record to support the entry, validation, maintenance, and reporting of data required for effective HR management, including employee names, addresses, job types, salary grades, employment history, and educational background.  ADP s Human Resources Management Solutions can also be combined with ADP s Talent Management Solutions and other HCM offerings. 
  Time and Attendance Management  .  ADP offers multiple options for employers of all sizes to collect employee time and attendance information, including electronic timesheets, badge cards, biometric and touch-screen time clocks, telephone/interactive voice response, and mobile smartphones and tablets.  ADP s time and attendance tracking tools simplify employee scheduling and automate the calculation and reporting of hours worked, helping employers consistently enforce leave and attendance policies, control overtime, and manage compliance with wage and hour regulations. 
  Insurance Services  .  ADP s Insurance Services business, in conjunction with our licensed insurance agency, Automatic Data Processing Insurance Agency, Inc., facilitates access in the United States to workers  compensation and group health insurance for small and mid-sized clients through a variety of insurance carriers.  ADP s automated Pay-by-Pay      premium payment program calculates and collects workers  compensation premium payments each pay period simplifying this task for employers. 
  Retirement Services  .  ADP Retirement Services helps employers in the United States administer various types of retirement plans, such as 401(k) (including  safe harbor  401(k) and Roth 401(k)), profit sharing (including new comparability), SIMPLE IRA, and executive deferred compensation plans.  ADP Retirement Services offers a full service 401(k) plan program which provides recordkeeping and administrative services, combined with an investment platform offered through ADP Broker-Dealer, Inc. that gives our clients  employees access to a wide range of non-proprietary investment options and online tools to monitor the performance of their investments.  In addition, ADP Retirement Services offers investment management services to retirement plans through a subsidiary that is a registered investment adviser under the  
  
   5 

Investment Advisers Act of 1940, as amended (the  Advisers Act ).  ADP Retirement Services also offers trustee services through a third party. 
  Tax and Compliance Services 
  ADP SmartCompliance  .  In the United States, ADP SmartCompliance  integrates client data delivered from ADP's integrated HCM platforms or third-party payroll, HR and financial systems into a single, cloud-based platform enabling clients to consolidate their data in one location.  ADP s specialized teams use the data to work with clients to help them manage changing regulatory landscapes and improve business processes.  ADP SmartCompliance integrates several HCM-related compliance processes, including health care reform under the U.S. Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act, as amended (the "Affordable Care Act") employment tax, wage payments, tax credits, wage garnishments, unemployment claims, and employment verifications. 
  ADP SmartCompliance Employment Tax  .  As part of ADP s employment tax services in the United States, ADP prepares and files employment tax returns on our clients  behalf with federal, state, and local tax agencies.  In connection with these services, ADP collects federal, state, and local employment taxes from clients and remits these taxes, as appropriate, to approximately 7,000 federal, state, and local tax agencies. ADP also responds to inquiries from tax agencies.  In addition to our full-service employment tax solution, ADP offers a software solution for do-it-yourself employment tax management that can complement a client s in-house payroll system.  In our fiscal year ended   June 30, 2017   ( fiscal   2017   ), ADP in the United States processed and delivered approximately 61 million employee year-end tax statements.  In addition, we moved approximately $1.85 trillion in client funds to taxing and other agencies and to our clients  employees and other payees via electronic transfer, direct deposit, and check. 
  ADP SmartCompliance Wage Payments  .  In the United States, in addition to ADPCheck, ADP s traditional payroll check offering, ADP offers electronic payroll disbursement options that can be integrated with clients  payroll systems and ERP applications.  With ALINE Pay by ADP , payroll can be disbursed via ALINE Check by ADP , direct deposit, or the ALINE Card by ADP , a network-branded payroll card.  ALINE Check by ADP gives employees the ability to receive wages through a self-completed payroll check that can be negotiated just as a traditionally issued payroll check.  Using the ALINE Card by ADP, employees can access their payroll funds immediately, including via a network member bank or an ATM, make purchases or pay bills, load additional funds onto the card, including government benefits or tax refunds, and transfer funds to a bank account in the United States. 
  ADP SmartCompliance - Other ADP Solutions.    Our other ADP SmartCompliance solutions include: 
             
    Tax Credits  .  ADP helps clients in the United States take advantage of tax credit and incentive opportunities as they hire new employees and expand or relocate their business operations, based on geography, demographics, and other criteria, including work opportunity tax credits, federal empowerment zone employment credits, economic development incentives, and training grants.  

Wage Garnishments  .  ADP offers an integrated solution to help our clients manage the wage garnishment process through integration with their payroll systems.  In the United States, ADP helps employers process and submit required correspondence and responses to federal and state agencies, courts and third parties.  

Unemployment Claims  .  ADP offers     a single-source solution to help manage the entire unemployment claims process in the United States, from pre-separation planning to claim protests to audits. 

Employment Verification.    ADP offers an automated solution to securely verify employment and income such as when an employee applies for a loan, credit card, lease or government assistance. 

Health Compliance.    ADP helps businesses     manage crucial employer-related elements of the Affordable Care Act, including determining offer of coverage eligibility, assessing affordability, and providing a critical regulatory management solution.  
       
  Professional Employer Organization Services  Products and Services 
  ADP TotalSource, ADP s PEO business, offers small and mid-sized businesses a comprehensive HR outsourcing solution through a co-employment model.  In fiscal 2017, ADP TotalSource became one of the first PEOs certified by the Internal Revenue Service as meeting the requirements to operate as a Certified Professional Employer Organization under the Internal Revenue Code.  As a PEO, ADP TotalSource provides complete HR management services while the client continues to  
  
   6 

direct the day-to-day job-related duties of the employees.  ADP TotalSource combines key HR management and employee benefits functions, including HR administration, employee benefits, and employer liability management, into a single-source solution: 
  HR Administration.    ADP TotalSource offers a variety of comprehensive HR administration services, such as: 
             
    employee recruitment 
                
    payroll and tax administration 
                
    time and attendance management 
                
    benefits administration 
                
    employee training and development 
                
    online HR management tools 
                
    employee leave administration 
       
  Employee Benefits  .  Through the co-employment model, ADP TotalSource provides eligible worksite employees with access to: 
             
    group health, dental and vision coverage 
                 
    health savings accounts 
                
    flexible spending accounts 
                
    group term life and disability coverage 
                
    an employee assistance program 
       
  Employer Liability Management.    ADP TotalSource helps clients manage and limit employment-related risks and related costs by providing: 
             
    a workers  compensation program 
                
    unemployment claims management 
                
    safety compliance guidance and access to safety training 
                
    access to employment practices liability insurance 
                
    guidance on compliance with U.S. federal, state and local employment laws and regulations 
       
  The scale of ADP TotalSource allows us to deliver a variety of benefits and services with efficiency and value typically out of reach to small and mid-sized businesses.  ADP TotalSource serves more than 10,700 clients and more than 490,000 worksite employees in all 50 states. 
  MARKETS AND SALES 
  Employer Services  HCM solutions are offered in more than 110 countries and territories.  The most material markets for our HCM solutions are the United States, Canada and Europe. In each market, we have both country-specific solutions and multi-country solutions, for employers of all sizes and complexities.  The major components of our HCM offerings throughout these geographies are payroll, HR outsourcing and time and attendance management.  In addition, we offer wage and tax collection and remittance services in the United States, Canada, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, France, Australia, India, and China. PEO Services offers services exclusively in the United States. 
  We market our solutions primarily through our direct sales force.  Employer Services also markets its solutions through indirect sales channels, such as marketing relationships with banks and certified public accountants, among others.  None of ADP s major business groups has a single homogeneous client base or market.  While concentrations of clients exist in specific industries, no one client, industry or industry group is material to ADP s overall revenues.  ADP enjoys a leadership position in each of its major service offerings and does not believe any major service or major business unit of ADP is subject to unique market risk. 
  COMPETITION 
  The industries in which ADP operates are highly competitive.  ADP knows of no reliable statistics by which it can determine the number of its competitors, but it believes that it is one of the largest providers of HR outsourcing solutions in the world.  Employer Services competes with other business outsourcing companies, companies providing ERP services, providers of cloud-based HCM solutions and financial institutions.  PEO Services competes with other PEOs providing similar services,  
  
   7 

as well as business outsourcing companies, companies providing ERP services and providers of cloud-based HCM solutions.  Other competitive factors include a company s in-house function, whereby a company installs and operates its own business processing systems. 
  Competition for business outsourcing solutions is primarily based on service and product quality, reputation, ease of use and accessibility of technology, breadth of services and products, and price. We believe that ADP is competitive in each of these areas and that our commitment to service excellence, together with our leading-edge technology, distinguishes us from our competitors. 
  INDUSTRY REGULATION 
  Our business is subject to a wide range of complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations.  In addition, many of our solutions are designed to assist clients with their compliance with certain U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to them.  We have, and continue to enhance, compliance programs and policies to monitor and address the legal and regulatory requirements applicable to our operations and client solutions, including dedicated compliance personnel and training programs. 
  As one of the world s largest providers of HR outsourcing solutions, our systems contain a significant amount of sensitive data related to clients, employees of our clients, vendors and our employees.  We are, therefore, subject to compliance obligations under federal, state and foreign privacy and data security-related laws, including federal, state and foreign security breach notification laws with respect to both our own employee data and client employee data.  The changing nature of privacy laws in the United States, Europe and elsewhere, including the adoption by the European Union of the General Data Protection Regulation (the "GDPR"), will impact our processing of personal information of our employees and on behalf of our clients.  In addition, in the United States, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 applies to our insurance services businesses and ADP TotalSource. 
  As part of our payroll and payroll tax management services, we move client funds to taxing authorities and our clients  employees via electronic transfer, direct deposit, prepaid access and ADPCheck.  Certain elements of our U.S. money transmission activities, including our electronic payment and prepaid access (payroll pay card) offerings, are subject to certain licensing requirements.  In addition, our U.S. prepaid access offering is subject to the anti-money laundering and reporting provisions of The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2000 (the  BSA ).  Elements of our money transmission activities outside of the United States are subject to similar licensing and anti-money laundering and reporting laws and requirements in the countries in which we provide such services.  Our employee screening and selection services business offers background checking services that are subject to the Fair Credit Reporting Act.  ADP TotalSource is subject to various state licensing requirements and maintains certifications with the Internal Revenue Service.  Because ADP TotalSource is a co-employer with respect to its clients  worksite employees, we may be subject to certain obligations and responsibilities of an employer under federal and state tax, insurance and employment laws.  In 2016, the U.S. Department of Labor issued a rule which treats ADP Retirement Services as a  fiduciary  for purposes of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act and the Internal Revenue Code in connection with certain services it provides.  As a result, we have formed a registered investment adviser under the Advisers Act that will provide certain investment management and advisory services under a heightened  fiduciary  standard and will be regulated as an investment adviser by the SEC. 
  In addition, many of our businesses offer solutions that assist our clients in complying with certain U.S. and foreign laws and regulations that apply to them.  Although these laws and regulations apply to our clients and not to ADP, changes in such laws or regulations may affect our operations, products and services.  For example, our payroll services are designed to facilitate compliance with state laws and regulations applicable to the payment of wages.  In addition, our HCM solutions help clients manage their compliance with certain requirements of the Affordable Care Act in the United States. Similarly, our Tax Credit Services business, which helps clients in the United States take advantage of tax credit opportunities in connection with the hiring of new employees and certain other activities, is based on federal, state, or local tax laws and regulations allowing for tax credits, which are subject to renewal, amendment or rescission. 
  The foregoing description does not include an exhaustive list of the laws and regulations governing or impacting our business.  See the discussion contained in the  Risk Factors  section in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for information regarding changes in laws and regulations that could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition or have other adverse consequences. 
  
   8 

CLIENTS AND CLIENT CONTRACTS 
  ADP provides its services to approximately 700,000 clients.  In fiscal   2017  , no single client or group of affiliated clients accounted for revenues in excess of 2% of ADP s annual consolidated revenues. 
  ADP is continuously in the process of performing implementation services for new clients.  Depending on the service agreement and/or the size of the client, the installation or conversion period for new clients can vary from a short period of time for a small Employer Services client (as little as 24 hours) to a longer period for a large Employer Services client with multiple deliverables (generally six to twelve months).  In some cases, the period may exceed two years for a large GlobalView client or other large, complicated implementation.  Although we monitor sales that have not yet been installed, we do not view this metric as material to an understanding of our overall business in light of the recurring nature of our business.  This metric is not a reported number, but it is used by management as a planning tool to allocate resources needed to install services, and as a means of assessing our performance against the expectations of our clients.  In addition, some of our products and services are sold under longer term contracts with initial terms ranging from two to seven years.  However, this anticipated future revenue under contract is not a significant portion of ADP s expected future revenue, is not a meaningful indicator of our future performance and is not used by management internally to estimate ADP s future revenue. 
  Our business is typically characterized by long-term client relationships that result in recurring revenue.  Our services are provided under written price quotations or service agreements having varying terms and conditions.  No one price quotation or service agreement is material to ADP.  ADP s client retention is estimated at approximately 10 years in Employer Services, and approximately 7 years in PEO Services, and has not varied significantly from period to period. 
  PRODUCT DEVELOPMENT 
  ADP continually upgrades, enhances, and expands its solutions and services.  In general, new solutions and services supplement rather than replace our existing solutions and services and, given our recurring revenue model, do not have a material and immediate effect on ADP's revenues. ADP believes that our strategic solutions and services have significant remaining life cycles. 
  SYSTEMS DEVELOPMENT AND PROGRAMMING 
  During the fiscal years ended June 30,   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , ADP invested approximately $859 million, $818 million, and $767 million, respectively, from continuing operations, in systems development and programming, which includes expenses for activities such as client migrations to our new strategic platforms, the development of new products and maintenance of our existing technologies, including purchases of new software and software licenses. 
  LICENSES 
  ADP is the licensee under a number of agreements for computer programs and databases.  ADP s business is not dependent upon a single license or group of licenses.  Third-party licenses, patents, trademarks, and franchises are not material to ADP s business as a whole. 
  NUMBER OF EMPLOYEES 
  ADP employed approximately 58,000 persons as of   June 30, 2017  . 

Item 1A. Risk Factors 
  Our businesses routinely encounter and address risks, some of which may cause our future results to be different than we currently anticipate.  Risk factors described below represent our current view of some of the most important risks facing our businesses and are important to understanding our business.  The following information should be read in conjunction with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk and the consolidated financial statements and related notes included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  This discussion includes a number of forward-looking statements.  You should refer to the description of the qualifications and limitations on forward-looking statements in the first paragraph under Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The level of  
  
   9 

importance of each of the following risks may vary from time to time, and any of these risks may have a material effect on our business. 
  Failure to comply with, or changes in, laws and regulations applicable to our businesses could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences 
  Our business is subject to a wide range of complex U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including, but not limited to, the laws and regulations described in the  Industry Regulation  section in Part I, Item 1 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  Failure to comply with laws and regulations applicable to our operations or client solutions could result in the suspension or revocation of licenses or registrations, the limitation, suspension or termination of services, and the imposition of consent orders or civil and criminal penalties, including fines, that could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.  
  In addition, changes in laws or regulations, or changes in the interpretation of laws or regulations by a regulatory authority, may decrease our revenues and earnings and may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business.  For example, a change in regulations either decreasing the amount of taxes to be withheld or allowing less time to remit taxes to government authorities would adversely impact average client balances and, thereby adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted to the applicable taxing authorities.  Changes in taxation regulations could adversely affect our effective tax rate and our net income.  Changes in laws that govern the co-employment arrangement between a professional employer organization and its worksite employees may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our PEO business.  Health care reform under the Affordable Care Act, related state laws, and the regulations thereunder, as well as pending federal health care legislation, have the potential to substantially impact the way that employers provide health insurance to employees and the health insurance market for our PEO business, as well as the demand for our health care compliance solutions.  We are unable to determine the ultimate impact that health care reform, including the pending federal health care legislation, will have on our PEO business and our ability to attract and retain PEO clients or demand for our health care compliance solutions. 
  Amendments to money transmitter statutes have required us to obtain licenses in some jurisdictions.  The adoption of new money transmitter statutes in other jurisdictions, changes in regulators  interpretation of existing state and federal money transmitter or money services business statutes or regulations, or disagreement by a regulatory authority with our interpretation of such existing statutes or regulations, could require additional registration or licensing, limit certain of our business activities until they are appropriately licensed, and expose us to financial penalties.  These occurrences could also require changes to the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our money movement business or client funds investment strategy, which could adversely impact interest income from investing client funds before such funds are remitted. 
  Failure to comply with anti-corruption laws and regulations, anti-money laundering laws and regulations, economic and trade sanctions, and similar laws could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences 
  Regulators worldwide are exercising heightened scrutiny with respect to anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions, and anti-money laundering laws and regulations.  Such heightened scrutiny has resulted in more aggressive investigations and enforcement of such laws and more burdensome regulations, any of which which could adversely impact our business.  We operate our business around the world, including in numerous developing economies where companies and government officials are more likely to engage in business practices that are prohibited by domestic and foreign laws and regulations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (the  FCPA ) and the U.K. Bribery Act.  Such laws generally prohibit improper payments or offers of payments to foreign government     officials and leaders of political parties, and in some cases, to other persons, for the purpose of obtaining or retaining business.  We are also subject to economic and trade sanctions programs, including those administered by the U.S. Treasury Department s Office of Foreign Assets Control ( OFAC ), which prohibit or restrict transactions or dealings with specified countries, their governments, and in certain circumstances, their nationals, and with individuals and entities that are specially designated, including narcotics traffickers and terrorists or terrorist organizations, among others.  In addition, some of our businesses in the U.S. and a number of countries in which we operate are subject to anti-money laundering laws and regulations, including, for example, The Bank Secrecy Act of 1970, as amended by the USA PATRIOT Act of 2000 (the  BSA ).  Among other things, the BSA requires certain financial institutions, including banks and money services businesses (such as money transmitters and providers of prepaid access), to develop and implement risk-based anti-money laundering programs, report large cash transactions and suspicious activity, and maintain transaction records. We have registered our payroll card business with the Treasury Department s Financial Crimes Enforcement Network ( FinCEN ) as a provider of prepaid access pursuant to a FinCEN regulation.   
  We have implemented policies and procedures to monitor and address compliance with applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions and anti-money laundering laws and regulations, and we are continuously in the process of  
  
   10 

reviewing, upgrading and enhancing certain of our policies and procedures.  However, there can be no assurance that our employees, consultants or agents will not take actions in violation of our policies for which we may be ultimately responsible, or that our policies and procedures will be adequate or will be determined to be adequate by regulators.  Any violations of applicable anti-corruption, economic and trade sanctions or anti-money laundering laws or regulations could limit certain of our business activities until they are satisfactorily remediated and could result in civil and criminal penalties, including fines, that could damage our reputation and have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. Further, bank regulators are imposing additional and stricter requirements on banks to ensure they are meeting their BSA obligations, and banks are increasingly viewing money services businesses, as a class, to be higher risk customers for money laundering.  As a result, our banking partners may limit the scope of services they provide to us or may impose additional requirements on us.  These regulatory restrictions on banks and changes to banks  internal risk-based policies and procedures may result in a decrease in the number of banks that may do business with us, may require us to change the manner in which we conduct some aspects of our business, may decrease our revenues and earnings and could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition. 
  Failure to comply with data privacy laws and regulations could have a materially adverse effect on our reputation, results of operations or financial condition, or have other adverse consequences 
  The collection, hosting, transfer, disclosure, use, storage and security of personal information required to provide our services is subject to federal, state and foreign data privacy laws.  These laws, which are not uniform, do one or more of the following: regulate the collection, transfer (including in some cases, the transfer outside the country of collection), processing, storage, use and disclosure of personal information; require notice to individuals of privacy practices; give individuals certain access and correction rights with respect to their personal information; and prevent the use or disclosure of personal information for secondary purposes such as marketing.  Under certain circumstances, some of these laws require us to provide notification to affected individuals, data protection authorities and/or other regulators in the event of a data breach.  In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information among the Company and its subsidiaries.  In addition, the European Union adopted the comprehensive General Data Privacy Regulation (the  GDPR ) in May 2016 that will replace the current EU Data Protection Directive and related country-specific legislation.  The GDPR will become fully effective in May 2018.  Complying with the enhanced obligations imposed by the GDPR may result in significant costs to our business and require us to amend certain of our business practices.  Further, enforcement actions and investigations by regulatory authorities related to data security incidents and privacy violations continue to increase.  The future enactment of more restrictive laws, rules or regulations and/or future enforcement actions or investigations could have a materially adverse impact on us through increased costs or restrictions on our businesses and noncompliance could result in regulatory penalties and significant legal liability.   
  Our businesses collect, host, transfer, disclose, use, store and secure personal and business information, and a security or privacy breach may damage or disrupt our businesses, result in the disclosure of confidential information, damage our reputation, increase our costs and cause losses 
  In connection with our business, we collect, host, transfer, disclose, use, store and secure large amounts of personal and business information about our clients, employees of our clients, our vendors and our employees, contractors and temporary staff, including payroll information, health care information, personal and business financial data, social security numbers and their foreign equivalents, bank account numbers, tax information and other sensitive personal and business information. 
  We are focused on ensuring that we safeguard and protect personal and business information, and we devote significant resources to maintain and regularly update our systems and processes.  Nonetheless, globally, attacks on information technology systems continue to grow in frequency, complexity and sophistication, and we are regularly targeted by unauthorized parties using malicious tactics, code and viruses.  Although this is a global problem, it may affect our businesses more than other businesses because malevolent third parties may focus on the amount and type of personal and business information that our businesses collect, host, use, transmit and store. 
  We have programs in place to prevent, detect and respond to data security incidents.  However, because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently, are increasingly more complex and sophisticated and may be difficult to detect for long periods of time, we may be unable or fail to anticipate these techniques or implement adequate or timely preventive or responsive measures.  In addition, hardware, software or applications we develop or procure from third parties may contain defects in design or manufacture or other problems that could compromise the confidentiality, integrity or availability of data or our systems.  Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities, or those of third parties with whom we do business, through fraud, trickery, or other methods of deceiving these third parties or our employees, contractors, and temporary staff.  As these threats continue to evolve and  
  
   11 

increase, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls and to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities.  In addition, while our operating environments are designed to safeguard and protect personal and business information, we do not have the ability to monitor the implementation or effectiveness of any safeguards by our clients or vendors, and, in any event, third parties may be able to circumvent those security measures. 
  Any cyber attack, unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service, corruption of data, theft of non-public or other sensitive information, or similar act by a malevolent party, or inadvertent acts or inactions by our employees, contractors or temporary staff, could result in the disclosure or misuse of confidential  personal or business information, and could have a materially adverse effect on our business operations, or that of our clients, create liability, regulatory sanction or a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients, or cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider.   
  Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the data security incidents that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, a data security incident could have a materially adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition.  While ADP maintains insurance coverage that, subject to policy terms and conditions and a significant self-insured retention, is designed to address losses or claims that may arise in connection with certain aspects of cyber risks, such insurance coverage may be insufficient to cover all losses or all types of claims that may arise in the continually evolving area of cyber risk. 
  Our systems may be subject to disruptions that could have a materially adverse effect on our business and reputation 
  Many of our businesses are highly dependent on our ability to process, on a daily basis, a large number of complicated transactions.  We rely heavily on our payroll, financial, accounting, and other data processing systems.  If any of these systems fails to operate properly or becomes disabled even for a brief period of time, we could suffer financial loss, a disruption of our businesses, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a materially adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.  We have disaster recovery, business continuity, and crisis management plans and procedures designed to protect our businesses against a multitude of events, including natural disasters, military or terrorist actions, power or communication failures, or similar events.  Despite our preparations, our plans may not be successful in preventing or mitigating the loss of client data, service interruptions, disruptions to our operations, or damage to our important facilities. 
  A disruption of our data centers could have a materially adverse effect on our business 
  We host our applications and serve our clients from data centers that we operate and from data centers operated by third-party vendors.  If any of our or our third party vendors' data centers fail or become disabled, even for a limited period of time, our businesses could be disrupted and we could suffer financial loss, liability to clients, loss of clients, regulatory intervention, or damage to our reputation, any of which could have a material adverse effect on our results of operation or financial condition.  In addition, our third party vendors may cease providing data center facilities or services, elect to not renew their agreements with us on commercially reasonable terms or at all, breach their agreements with us or fail to satisfy our expectations, which could disrupt our operations and require us to incur costs which could materially adversely affect our results of operation or financial condition. 
  If we fail to adapt our technology and services to meet client needs and preferences, the demand for our solutions and services may diminish 
  Our businesses operate in industries that are subject to rapid technological advances and changing client needs and preferences.  In order to remain competitive and responsive to client demands, we continually upgrade, enhance, and expand our existing solutions and services.  If we fail to respond successfully to technology challenges and client needs and preferences, the demand for our solutions and services may diminish. 
  Political and economic factors may adversely affect our business and financial results 
  Trade, monetary and fiscal policies, and political and economic conditions may substantially change, and credit markets may experience periods of constriction and volatility.  When there is a slowdown in the economy, employment levels and interest rates may decrease with a corresponding impact on our businesses.  Clients may react to worsening conditions by reducing their spending on payroll and other outsourcing services or renegotiating their contracts with us, which may adversely affect our business and financial results.   
  
   12 

We invest our client funds in liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, money market securities, and other cash equivalents.  Nevertheless, our client fund assets are subject to general market, interest rate, credit, and liquidity risks.  These risks may be exacerbated, individually or in unison, during periods of unusual financial market volatility.  In addition, as part of our client funds investment strategy, we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for client funds and utilize short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations.  In order to satisfy these short-term funding requirements, we maintain access to various sources of liquidity, including borrowings under our commercial paper program and our committed credit facilities, our ability to execute reverse repurchase transactions and corporate cash balances.  A reduction in the availability of any such financing during periods of disruption in the financial markets or otherwise may require us to sell client fund assets to satisfy our short-term funding requirements, which may result in the recognition of losses and adversely impact our results of operations, financial condition and cash flow. 
  We are dependent upon various large banks to execute electronic payments and wire transfers as part of our client payroll, tax and other money movement services.  While we have contingency plans in place for bank failures, a systemic shutdown of the banking industry would impede our ability to process funds on behalf of our payroll, tax and other money movement services clients and could have an adverse impact on our financial results and liquidity. 
  We derive a significant portion of our revenues and operating income outside of the United States and, as a result, we are exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our results of operations, financial position and cash flows. 
  Our business could be negatively impacted as a result of actions by activist stockholders or others 
  We may be subject to actions or proposals from activist stockholders or others that may not align with our business strategies or the interests of our other stockholders.  Responding to such actions could be costly and time-consuming, disrupt our business and operations, and divert the attention of our Board of Directors and senior management from the pursuit of our business strategies.  Activist stockholders may create perceived uncertainties as to the future direction of our business or strategy which may be exploited by our competitors and may make it more difficult to attract and retain qualified personnel, potential customers and business partners and may affect our relationships with current customers, vendors, investors and other third parties.  In addition, actions of activist stockholders may cause periods of fluctuation in our stock price based on temporary or speculative market perceptions or other factors that do not necessarily reflect the underlying fundamentals and prospects of our business. 
  Change in our credit ratings could adversely impact our operations and lower our profitability 
  The major credit rating agencies periodically evaluate our creditworthiness and have given us very strong, investment-grade long-term debt ratings and the highest commercial paper ratings.  Failure to maintain high credit ratings on long-term and short-term debt could increase our cost of borrowing, reduce our ability to obtain intra-day borrowing required by our Employer Services business, and adversely impact our results of operations. 
  If the distribution of CDK Global  common stock to ADP s stockholders does not qualify as a tax-free spinoff, we could incur substantial liabilities and may not be fully indemnified for such liabilities 
  On September 30, 2014, the Company completed the tax-free spinoff of its former Dealer Services business through the distribution of all of the issued and outstanding common stock of CDK Global, Inc. ( CDK Global ) to ADP s stockholders.  CDK Global was formed to hold ADP s former Dealer Services business and, as a result of the distribution, became an independent public company trading under the symbol  CDK  on the NASDAQ Global Select Market.  Prior to completing the spinoff of CDK Global, ADP received an opinion from Paul, Weiss, Rifkind, Wharton   Garrison LLP, its counsel, to the effect that, based on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings set forth in the opinion, the distribution qualified as a transaction that is tax-free under Section 355 and other related provisions of the Internal Revenue Code.  ADP also received a private letter ruling from the IRS with respect to certain discrete and significant issues arising in connection with the transactions effected in connection with the separation and distribution.  The opinion and the ruling were based upon various factual representations and assumptions, as well as certain undertakings made by ADP and CDK Global.  If any of those factual representations or assumptions was untrue or incomplete in any material respect, any undertaking is not complied with, or the facts upon which the opinion and the ruling were based were materially different from the facts at the time of the distribution, the distribution may not qualify for tax-free treatment.  Although a private letter ruling from the IRS generally is binding on the IRS, the IRS did not rule that the distribution satisfies every requirement for a tax-free distribution. Opinions of counsel are not binding on the IRS or the courts. As a result, the conclusions expressed in an opinion of counsel could be challenged by the IRS, and if the IRS prevails in such challenge, the tax consequences to ADP s stockholders that received CDK Global common stock pursuant to the distribution could be materially less favorable. 
  
   13 

If the distribution were determined not to qualify as a tax-free transaction under Section 355 of the Code, each United States holder of ADP common stock that received CDK Global common stock pursuant to the distribution generally would be treated as receiving a distribution taxable as a dividend in an amount equal to the fair market value of the shares of CDK Global common stock received by such holder.  In addition, ADP generally would recognize gain with respect to the distribution and certain related transactions, and CDK Global could be required to indemnify ADP for any resulting taxes and related expenses, which could be material.  The distribution and certain related transactions could be taxable to ADP if CDK Global or its stockholders were to engage in certain transactions after the distribution.  In such cases, ADP or its stockholders that received CDK Global common stock pursuant to the spinoff could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities, and CDK Global could be required to indemnify ADP for any resulting taxes and related expenses, which could be material.  CDK Global may be unable to indemnify us fully for any such taxes and related expenses. 
  We may be unable to attract and retain qualified personnel 
  Our ability to grow and provide our clients with competitive services is partially dependent on our ability to attract and retain highly motivated people with the skills to serve our clients.  Competition for skilled employees in the outsourcing and other markets in which we operate is intense and, if we are unable to attract and retain highly skilled and motivated personnel, results of our operations may suffer. 
  
   14 

Item 1B. Unresolved Staff Comments 
  None. 
   
  Item 2. Properties 
  ADP owns 8 of its processing/print centers, and 19 other operational offices, sales offices, and its corporate headquarters in Roseland, New Jersey, which aggregate approximately 3,455,863 square feet.  None of ADP's owned facilities is subject to any material encumbrances.  ADP leases space for some of its processing centers, other operational offices, and sales offices.  All of these leases, which aggregate approximately 6,195,070 square feet worldwide, expire at various times up to the year 2028.  ADP believes its facilities are currently adequate for their intended purposes and are adequately maintained  .                                                    
   
  Item 3. Legal Proceedings 
  In the normal course of business, ADP is subject to various claims and litigation.  While the outcome of any litigation is inherently unpredictable, ADP believes that it has valid defenses with respect to the legal matters pending against it and that the ultimate resolution of these matters will not have a materially adverse impact on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 
   
  Item 4. Mine Safety Disclosures 
  Not applicable 

15 

Part II 
   
  Item 5. Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  Market for Registrant's Common Equity 
  The principal market for the Company s common stock is the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol ADP.  The following table sets forth the reported high and low sales prices of the Company s common stock reported on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and the cash dividends per share of common stock declared during each quarter for the two most recent fiscal years.  As of   June 30, 2017  , there were 41,598 holders of record of the Company s common stock.  As of such date, 587,103 additional holders held their common stock in  street name.  

16 

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  

(1) 
          
    Pursuant to the terms of the Company s restricted stock program, the Company purchased 4,531 shares at the then market value of the shares in connection with the exercise by employees of their option under such program to satisfy certain tax withholding requirements through the delivery of shares to the Company instead of cash. 
        
      (2) 
      
    The Company received the Board of Directors' approval to repurchase shares of the Company's common stock as follows: 

There is no expiration date for the common stock repurchase plan.  
  
   17 

Performance Graph 
  The following graph compares the cumulative return on the Company s common stock   (a)    for the most recent five years with the cumulative return on the S P 500 Index and the Peer Group Index,   (b)    assuming an initial investment of $100 on June 30, 2012, with all dividends reinvested.  The stock price performance shown on this graph may not be indicative of future performance. 

(a) 
    On September 30, 2014, the Company completed the spinoff of its former Dealer Services business into an independent publicly traded company called CDK Global, Inc.  The cumulative returns of the Company s common stock have been adjusted to reflect the spinoff. 
       
           (b) 
    We use the S P 500 Information Technology Index as our Peer Group Index.  The S P 500 Information Technology Index is a broad index that includes the Company and several competitors. 

18 

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data 
    
  The following selected financial data is derived from our Consolidated Financial Statements and should be read in conjunction with the Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes, Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, and Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  The Company uses certain non-GAAP financial measures that we believe better reflect the underlying operations of our business model, allows investors to assess our performance in a manner similar to the method used by management, and improves our ability to understand and assess our operating performance against prior periods.  Refer to (A) below for additional information about our non-GAAP financial measures and our reconciliations to reported results. Additionally, prior period amounts have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations. 

(A) Non-GAAP Financial Measures 
    
  In addition to our GAAP results, we use the adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics set forth in the table below to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods:  

19 

Adjusted Financial Measure 
    U.S. GAAP Measures 
    Adjustments/Explanation 
      Adjusted EBIT 
    Net earnings from continuing operations 
    - Provision for income taxes 
  - Gains/losses on non-operational transactions such as sales of businesses and assets 
  - All other interest expense and income 
  - Certain restructuring charges  
    
  See footnotes (a) and (b) 
      Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations 
    Net earnings from continuing operations 
    Pre-tax and tax impacts of: 
    
  - Gains/losses on non-operational transactions such as sales of businesses and assets 
  - Certain restructuring charges  
    
  See footnotes (b), (c), and (d) 
      Adjusted provision for income taxes  
    Provision for income taxes 
    Tax impacts of: 
    
  - Gains/losses on non-operational transactions such as sales of businesses and assets 
  - Certain restructuring charges 
    
  See footnotes (c) and (d) 
      Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 
    Diluted earnings per share 
    EPS impacts of: 
    
  - Gains/losses on non-operational transactions such as sales of businesses and assets  
  - Certain restructuring charges  
    
  See footnote (b) 
    
      Adjusted effective tax rate  
    Effective tax rate 
    See footnote (e) 
      Constant Dollar Basis  
    U.S. GAAP P L line items 
    See footnote (f) 

We believe that the exclusion of the identified items helps us reflect the fundamentals of our underlying business model and analyze results against our expectations, against prior period, and to plan for future periods by focusing on our underlying operations.  We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by management and improves their ability to understand and assess our operating performance.  The nature of these exclusions are for specific items that are not fundamental to our underlying business operations.  Since these adjusted financial measures and other non-GAAP metrics are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to their U.S. GAAP measures, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures at other companies. 

20 

(a) We continue to include the interest income earned on investments associated with our client funds extended investment strategy and interest expense on borrowings related to our client funds extended investment strategy as we believe these amounts to be fundamental to the underlying operations of our business model. The adjustments in the table above represent the interest income and interest expense that is not related to our client funds extended investment strategy and are labeled as "All other interest expense" and "All other interest income." 
    
  (b) The majority of charges relating to our Service Alignment Initiative and Workforce Optimization Effort represent severance charges.  Severance charges have been taken in the past and not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results.  Unlike severance charges in prior periods, these specific charges relate to our broad-based, company-wide Service Alignment Initiative and Workforce Optimization Effort.  The fiscal 2017 Workforce Optimization Effort adjustment totaling approximately $5 million represents a reversal of the fiscal 2016 estimate. 
    
  (c) The taxes on the gains on the sale of the businesses were calculated based on the annualized marginal rate in effect during the quarter of the adjustment.  The tax amount was adjusted for a book vs. tax basis difference for the year ended   June 30, 2017   due to the derecognition of goodwill upon the sale of the business and for the year ended   June 30, 2016   due to a previously recorded non tax-deductible goodwill impairment charge. 

21 

(d) The tax benefit/provision on the Service Alignment Initiative, Workforce Optimization Effort, and the gain on the sale of the building was calculated based on the annualized marginal rate in effect during the quarter of the adjustment. 
    
  (e) The Adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as our Adjusted provision for income taxes divided by our Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations plus our Adjusted provision for income taxes. 
    
  (f) "Constant dollar basis" provides information that isolates the actual growth of our operations.  "Constant dollar basis" is determined by calculating the current year result using foreign exchange rates consistent with the prior year. 
    
  (g) The goodwill impairment charge in fiscal 2013 was non tax-deductible. 

Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
    
  This document and other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP may contain  forward-looking statements  within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  Statements that are not historical in nature and which may be identified by the use of words like  expects,   assumes,   projects,   anticipates,   estimates,   we believe,   could   is designed to  and other words of similar meaning, are forward-looking statements.  These statements are based on management s expectations and assumptions and depend upon or refer to future events or conditions and are subject to risks and uncertainties that may cause actual results to differ materially from those expressed.  Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from those contemplated by the forward-looking statements or that could contribute to such difference include: ADP's success in obtaining, and retaining clients, and selling additional services to clients; the pricing of products and services; compliance with existing or new legislation or regulations; changes in, or interpretations of, existing legislation or regulations; overall market, political and economic conditions, including interest rate and foreign currency trends; competitive conditions; our ability to maintain our current credit ratings and the impact on our funding costs and profitability; security or privacy breaches, fraudulent acts, and system interruptions and failures; employment and wage levels; changes in technology; availability of skilled technical associates; and the impact of new acquisitions and divestitures.  ADP disclaims any obligation to update any forward-looking statements, whether as a result of new information, future events or otherwise, except as required by law.  These risks and uncertainties, along with the risk factors discussed under  Item 1A.  Risk Factors,  and in other written or oral statements made from time to time by ADP, should be considered in evaluating any forward-looking statements contained herein. 

EXECUTIVE OVERVIEW  
    
  We are one of the largest providers of cloud-based Human Capital Management ("HCM") solutions - including payroll, talent management, Human Resources and benefits administration, and time and attendance management - to employers around the world.  As a leader in this industry, we are focused on driving product innovation, enhancing our distribution and service capabilities, and assisting our clients with their HCM needs in the face of ever increasing regulatory complexity.  
    
  Highlights from the year ended June 30,   2017   ("fiscal 2017") include: 

Revenue grew   6%   which includes one percentage point of combined pressure from the sale of our COBRA and CHSA businesses and foreign currency translation. 
                 
    Net earnings from continuing operations increased   16%  ; Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations grew   11%  . 
                
    Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased   18%   to   $3.85  .  Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased   13%   to   $3.70  .  
                
    We continued our shareholder friendly actions by returning   $1.3 billion   via share repurchases, and approximately   $1 billion   via dividends, which increased on a per-share basis for the 42   nd    consecutive year. We have fully distributed the proceeds from our fiscal 2016 debt issuance. 

22 

During fiscal   2017  , we continued to focus on our global HCM strategy by investing to strengthen our underlying business model and prospects for sustainable long-term growth. Our robust and diverse product offerings are the result of our continued investment in product innovation and service. Our results in fiscal 2017 reflect the stability of our underlying business model and our disciplined strategy for profitable growth while maintaining our focus on shareholder friendly actions. 
    
  Our new business bookings were down   5%   during fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  , due to high demand in fiscal 2016 for our solutions that assist our clients in complying with the Affordable Care Act ("ACA").  We remain optimistic of our ability to deliver innovative and competitive products, as well as our sales force's ability to distribute our products heading into the year ending June 30, 2018 ("fiscal 2018"). 
    
   The causes of our client losses and resulting impact on our revenue retention continue to be a point of internal focus. Our Employer Services revenue retention was down   50   basis points during fiscal   2017   as compared to fiscal   2016   primarily due to lower retention on our legacy client platforms coupled with the anticipated loss of a large client within our former CHSA business at the beginning of the fiscal year.   We are seeing strong retention on our strategic platforms.  We continue to upgrade our clients from legacy platforms to our new cloud-based solutions and focus on improving the client experience.  We believe upgrading our clients from legacy platforms is an important aspect of our long-term strategy, giving our clients our most innovative and seamless products. 
    
  Our implementation team's ability to implement our services as well as our sales force's ability to sell to clients and prospects drove revenue growth during fiscal   2017  . Our revenue growth also benefited from the continued increase in our pays per control metric, which we measure as the number of employees on our clients' payrolls as measured on a same-store-sales basis utilizing a representative subset of payrolls ranging from small to large businesses that are reflective of a broad range of U.S. geographic regions. 
    
  During fiscal   2017  , we incurred   $90.0 million   in charges for a previously announced multi-year Service Alignment Initiative intended to align our client service operations to our strategic platforms. In connection with this Service Alignment Initiative, we anticipate incurring total pre-tax charges of about   $30 million   in the year ended June 30,   2018  . 
    
  In November 2016, we completed the sale of our Consumer Health Spending Account ("CHSA") and Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act ("COBRA") businesses which resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately   $205 million  .  This disposition, and subsequent partnership with the acquiring company, allows us to further sharpen our focus on our core capabilities while continuing to deliver a full suite of HCM solutions to current and future clients in a seamless fashion. The historical results of operations of this business are included in the Employer Services segment.   
    
  In January 2017, we acquired The Marcus Buckingham Company ("TMBC"). TMBC is a provider of talent management technology, coaching, and consulting solutions. The acquisition reflects our commitment to innovation and enhances our core HCM capabilities, allowing us to deepen our offering in this critical area of talent management. The results of operations of this business will be included in the Employer Services segment.   
    
  We have a strong business model with a high percentage of recurring revenues, good margins, the ability to generate consistent healthy cash flows, strong client retention, and low capital expenditure requirements. Our financial condition and balance sheet remain solid at   June 30, 2017  , with cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities of approximately   $2.8 billion  .  
    
  We continue to make investments in our sales force and are pleased with the operational improvements of our organization, our ability to continuously innovate and offer new and exciting products to our clients, and the ability of our service organization to support these new services and strategic platforms.  Our pipeline for future new business bookings remains strong, as we leverage our investments in our strategic platforms and our strong, tenured sales force.  We believe that our focus on these areas will continue to drive our growth and success in the future. 

23 

RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
  ANALYSIS OF CONSOLIDATED OPERATIONS 
    
  Prior period amounts have been adjusted to exclude discontinued operations (refer to Note 3 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for additional information). 
    
  (In millions, except per share amounts) 

n/m - not meaningful 
    
  Note 1.  Non-GAAP measures 
    
  In addition to our GAAP results, we use the adjusted results and other non-GAAP metrics set forth in the table below to evaluate our operating performance in the absence of certain items and for planning and forecasting of future periods:  

24 

Adjusted Financial Measure 
    U.S. GAAP Measures 
    Adjustments/Explanation 
      Adjusted EBIT 
    Net earnings from continuing operations 
    - Provision for income taxes - Gains/losses on non-operational transactions such as sales of businesses and assets - All other interest expense and income - Certain restructuring charges   See footnotes (a) and (b) 
      Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations 
    Net earnings from continuing operations 
    Pre-tax and tax impacts of:  - Gains/losses on non-operational transactions such as sales of businesses and assets - Certain restructuring charges   See footnotes (b), (c), and (d) 
      Adjusted provision for income taxes  
    Provision for income taxes 
    Tax impacts of:  - Gains/losses on non-operational transactions such as sales of businesses and assets - Certain restructuring charges  See footnotes (c) and (d) 
      Adjusted diluted earnings per share from continuing operations 
    Diluted earnings per share 
    EPS impacts of:  - Gains/losses on non-operational transactions such as sales of businesses and assets  - Certain restructuring charges   See footnote (b)  
      Adjusted effective tax rate  
    Effective tax rate 
    See footnote (e) 
      Constant Dollar Basis  
    U.S. GAAP P L line items 
    See footnote (f) 

We believe that the exclusion of the identified items helps us reflect the fundamentals of our underlying business model and analyze results against our expectations, against prior period, and to plan for future periods by focusing on our underlying operations.  We believe that the adjusted results provide relevant and useful information for investors because it allows investors to view performance in a manner similar to the method used by management and improves their ability to understand and assess our operating performance.  The nature of these exclusions are for specific items that are not fundamental to our underlying business operations.  Since these adjusted financial measures and other non-GAAP metrics are not measures of performance calculated in accordance with U.S. GAAP, they should not be considered in isolation from, as a substitute for, or superior to their U.S. GAAP measures, and they may not be comparable to similarly titled measures at other companies. 

25 

(a) We continue to include the interest income earned on investments associated with our client funds extended investment strategy and interest expense on borrowings related to our client funds extended investment strategy as we believe these amounts to be fundamental to the underlying operations of our business model. The adjustments in the table above represent the interest income and interest expense that is not related to our client funds extended investment strategy and are labeled as "All other interest expense" and "All other interest income." 
    
  (b) The majority of charges relating to our Service Alignment Initiative and Workforce Optimization Effort represent severance charges.  Severance charges have been taken in the past and not included as an adjustment to get to adjusted results.  Unlike  
  
   26 

severance charges in prior periods, these specific charges relate to our broad-based, company-wide Service Alignment Initiative and Workforce Optimization Effort.  The fiscal 2017 Workforce Optimization Effort adjustment totaling approximately $5 million represents a reversal of the fiscal 2016 estimate. 
    
  (c) The taxes on the gains on the sale of the businesses were calculated based on the annualized marginal rate in effect during the quarter of the adjustment.  The tax amount was adjusted for a book vs. tax basis difference for the year ended   June 30, 2017   due to the derecognition of goodwill upon the sale of the business and for the year ended   June 30, 2016   due to a previously recorded non tax-deductible goodwill impairment charge. 
    
  (d) The tax benefit/provision on the Service Alignment Initiative, Workforce Optimization Effort, and the gain on the sale of the building was calculated based on the annualized marginal rate in effect during the quarter of the adjustment. 
    
  (e) The Adjusted effective tax rate is calculated as our Adjusted provision for income taxes divided by our Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations plus our Adjusted provision for income taxes. 
    
  (f) "Constant dollar basis" provides information that isolates the actual growth of our operations.  "Constant dollar basis" is determined by calculating the current year result using foreign exchange rates consistent with the prior year. 

Fiscal   2017   Compared to Fiscal   2016    
    
  Total Revenues 
    
  Our revenues, as reported,   increase  d   6%   in fiscal   2017  , which includes one percentage point of pressure from the net impact of acquisitions, the disposition of our CHSA and COBRA businesses and foreign currency translation.  Revenue increased primarily due to new business started from new business bookings.  Refer to  Analysis of Reportable Segments  for additional discussion of the increases in revenue for both of our reportable segments, Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization ("PEO") Services. 
    
  Total revenues in fiscal   2017   include interest on funds held for clients of   $397.4 million  , as compared to   $377.3 million   in fiscal   2016  .  The   increase   in the consolidated interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from the   increase   in our average client funds balances of   2.7%   to   $23,023.5 million   in fiscal   2017  . 
    
  Total Expenses 
    
  Our total expenses, as reported,   increase  d   6%   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  The   increase   is primarily due to an   increase   in PEO services pass-through costs, the restructuring and dual operations costs related to our Service Alignment Initiative, and   increase  d costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue.  These increases were partially offset by the disposition of our CHSA and COBRA businesses during fiscal   2017  . 
    
  Operating expenses, as reported,   increase  d   6%   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  PEO Services pass-through costs were   $2,628.4 million   for fiscal   2017  , which included costs for benefits coverage of   $2,173.9 million   and costs for workers  compensation and payment of state unemployment taxes of   $454.5 million  .  These pass-through costs were   $2,336.3 million   for fiscal   2016  , which included costs for benefits coverage of   $1,906.0 million   and costs for workers  compensation and payment of state unemployment taxes of   $430.3 million  .  Additionally, operating expenses   increase  d due to higher costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue, including dual operation costs associated with our Service Alignment Initiative, partially offset by the disposition of our CHSA and COBRA businesses. 
    
  Systems development and programming costs, as reported,   increased     4%   in fiscal   2017  , when compared to the same period in the prior year, due to increased investments and costs to develop, support, and maintain our products, partially offset by a higher proportion of capitalized costs of our strategic projects. 
    
  Selling, general and administrative expenses, as reported,   increased     6%   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  The   increase   was primarily related to investments in our sales organization.  Selling, general and administrative expenses also   increase  d due to additional restructuring charges which primarily relate to our Service Alignment Initiative and Workforce Optimization Effort.  

27 

Other Income, net 

Other income, net,   increase  d   $183.9 million   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  The   increase   was primarily due to the gain on sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses of   $205.4 million   in fiscal   2017  , partially offset by the gain on sale of the AdvancedMD ("AMD") business of   $29.1 million   and the gain on the sale of a building of   $13.9 million   in fiscal   2016  . 
    
  Earnings from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 
    
  Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes   increase  d   13%   due to the gain on the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses as well as the increases in revenues and expenses discussed above, partially offset by the net impact of the Service Alignment Initiative and Workforce Optimization Effort charges in fiscal   2017   and   2016  .  Overall margin   increased   from   19.2%   in fiscal   2016   to   20.4%   in fiscal   2017   primarily due to the gain on the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses, and operating efficiencies, partially offset by the net charges related to the Service Alignment Initiative and Workforce Optimization Effort in fiscal   2017   and   2016  , the gain on the sale of the building and the gain on the sale of AMD in fiscal   2016  , and additional interest expense related to our September 2015 $2.0 billion senior note issuance in fiscal   2016  . 
    
  Adjusted EBIT 
    
  Adjusted EBIT excludes certain interest amounts, the gain on the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses, the impact of the charges related to the Service Alignment Initiative and the Workforce Optimization Effort, and the gain on the sale of the building and the gain on the sale of the AMD business in fiscal   2016  . 
    
  Adjusted EBIT   increase  d   8%   due to the increases in revenues and expenses discussed above.  Overall Adjusted EBIT margin   increase  d from   19.5%   in fiscal   2016   to   19.8%   in fiscal   2017   due to operating efficiencies partially offset by 20 basis points of pressure from dual operation costs related to our Service Alignment Initiative.                                                  
    
  Provision for Income Taxes 
    
  The effective tax rate in fiscal   2017   and   2016   was   31.5%   and   33.2%  , respectively.  The decrease in the effective tax rate is due to tax incentives associated with the domestic production activity deduction and research tax credit for prior tax years which decreased our effective tax rate by   210   basis points in fiscal   2017   and the adoption of ASU 2016-09 related to the new accounting guidance for excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation (as further explained in Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements), which decreased our effective tax rate by   130   basis points in fiscal   2017  .  These decreases were partially offset by the impact of the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses and a lower benefit related to the usage of foreign tax credits in fiscal   2017  .  
    
  Adjusted Provision for Income Taxes 
    
  The effective tax rate, adjusted for the gain on the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses, the impact of the charges related to the Service Alignment Initiative and Workforce Optimization Effort, the gain on the sale of the building and the gain on the sale of the AMD business in fiscal   2016  , for fiscal   2017   and   2016   was   30.9%   and   33.3%  , respectively.  The decrease in the adjusted effective tax rate is due to tax incentives associated with the domestic production activity deduction and research tax credit for prior tax years which decreased our effective tax rate by   220   basis points in fiscal   2017   and the adoption of ASU 2016-09 related to the new accounting guidance for excess tax benefits on stock-based compensation (as further explained in Note 1 of our Consolidated Financial Statements), which decreased our effective tax rate by   130   basis points in fiscal   2017  . This decrease was offset by a lower benefit related to the usage of foreign tax credits in fiscal   2017  .  

28 

Net Earnings from Continuing Operations and Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations 
    
  Net earnings from continuing operations, as reported,   increase  d   16%   in fiscal   2017   due to the   increase   in earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and the reduction in our effective tax rate described above, when compared to fiscal   2016  . 
    
  Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations increased   18%   to   $3.85   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to   $3.25   in fiscal   2016  .  Diluted earnings per share from continuing operations reflects the   increase   in net earnings from continuing operations (inclusive of a   $0.07   impact from the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in fiscal   2017  ) and the impact of fewer shares outstanding, resulting from the repurchase of approximately   13.5 million   shares in fiscal   2017   and   13.8 million   shares in fiscal   2016  , partially offset by the issuances of shares under our employee benefit plans. 
    
  Adjusted Net Earnings from Continuing Operations and Adjusted Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations 
    
  Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations increased   11%   in fiscal   2017   due to the   increase   in adjusted EBIT and reduction in our effective tax rate described above when compared to fiscal   2016  . 
    
  For fiscal   2017  , our Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations reflects the   increase   in Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations (inclusive of a   $0.07   impact from the adoption of ASU 2016-09 in fiscal   2017  ) and the impact of fewer shares outstanding as a result of the repurchase of   13.5 million   shares during fiscal   2017   and the repurchase of   13.8 million   shares in fiscal   2016  , partially offset by shares issued under our employee benefit plans. 

Fiscal   2016   Compared to Fiscal   2015    
    
  Total Revenues 
    
  Our revenues, as reported,   increase  d   7%   in fiscal   2016  , despite   two   percentage points of combined pressure from foreign currency translation and the disposition of the AMD business in September 2015, primarily due to new business started during the past twelve months from new business bookings growth.  Refer to  Analysis of Reportable Segments  for additional discussion of the increases in revenue for both of our reportable segments, Employer Services and PEO Services. 
    
  Total revenues in fiscal   2016   include interest on funds held for clients of   $377.3 million  , as compared to   $377.7 million   in fiscal   2015  .  The   decrease   in the consolidated interest earned on funds held for clients resulted from the decrease in the average interest rate earned in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  , partially offset by the   increase   in our average client funds balances of   2.8%   to   $22,418.7 million   in fiscal   2016  . 
    
  Total Expenses 
    
  Our total expenses, as reported,   increase  d   7%   in fiscal   2016  , as compared to the same period in the prior year.  The   increase   is primarily due to an   increase   in PEO services pass-through costs as well as an increase in selling and implementation expenses to support our growth in new business bookings as we experienced continued demand for additional HCM solutions, including products that assist businesses in complying with the ACA.  Total expenses also   increase  d due to   increase  d costs to service our client base in support of our growing revenue, and an increase in severance expenses, primarily related to our Workforce Optimization Effort.  These increases were partially offset by the impact of foreign currency translation.  
    
  Operating expenses, as reported,   increase  d   7%   in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  .  PEO Services pass-through costs were   $2,336.3 million   for fiscal   2016  , which included costs for benefits coverage of   $1,906.0 million   and costs for workers  compensation and payment of state unemployment taxes of   $430.3 million  .  These pass-through costs were   $2,015.9 million   for fiscal   2015  , which included costs for benefits coverage of   $1,627.1 million   and costs for workers  compensation and payment of state unemployment taxes of   $388.8 million  .  Additionally, operating expenses   increase  d due to higher costs to implement and service our client base in support of our growing revenue, including products that assist with ACA compliance which contributed to our strong new business bookings over the past several quarters.  These increases were partially offset by the impact of foreign currency translation. 
    
  Systems development and programming costs, as reported,   increased     1%   in fiscal   2016  , when compared to the same period in the prior year, due to increased investments and costs to develop, support, and maintain our products, partially offset by a higher proportion of capitalized costs of our strategic projects and the impact of foreign currency translation. 

29 

Selling, general and administrative expenses, as reported,   increased     6%   in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  .  The   increase   was primarily related to an increase in selling expenses to support our growth in new business bookings as we experienced continued demand for our HCM products, particularly those that are designed to assist businesses in complying with the ACA.  Selling, general and administrative expenses also increased due to   $57.6 million   of additional severance charges, of which   $48.2 million   relate to our Workforce Optimization Effort, and a   $10.7 million   reversal of reserves in fiscal   2015   related to our former Dealer Services business financing arrangements which were sold to a third party.  These increases were partially offset by the impact of foreign currency translation. 
    
  Other Income, net 

Other income, net,   increase  d   $37.2 million   in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  .  The   increase   was primarily due to the gain on the sale of the AMD business of   $29.1 million   and the gain on the sale of a building of   $13.9 million  . 
    
  Earnings from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 
    
  Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes   increased     8%   due to increases in revenues and expenses discussed above and includes an unfavorable impact from foreign currency translation of   one   percentage point.  Overall margin   increased   from   18.9%   in fiscal   2015   to   19.2%   in fiscal   2016   due to the gain on the sale of the AMD business, the gain on the sale of the building and decreased selling expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015  .  These increases were offset by an increase in interest expense related to our September 2015   $2.0 billion   senior note issuance, investments in implementation and operational resources to support our revenue growth, and the charges related to our Workforce Optimization Effort.   
    
  Adjusted EBIT 
    
  Adjusted EBIT, which excludes certain interest amounts, the impact of the AMD business sale, the gain on the sale of a building and the charges related to our Workforce Optimization Effort,   increase  d   10%   due to the increases in revenues and expenses discussed above.  Overall Adjusted EBIT margin   increase  d from   18.8%   in fiscal   2015   to   19.5%   in fiscal   2016   due to lower selling expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal 2016 as compared to fiscal 2015, partially offset by investments in implementation and operational resources to support our revenue growth.  
    
  Provision for Income Taxes 
    
  The effective tax rate in fiscal   2016   and   2015   was   33.2%   and   33.5%  , respectively.  The decrease in the effective tax rate was due to the usage of foreign tax credits in a repatriation of foreign earnings in fiscal   2016  , partially offset by the resolution of certain tax matters in fiscal   2015  . 
    
  Adjusted Provision for Income Taxes 
    
  The effective tax rate, adjusted for the impact of the Workforce Optimization Effort, sale of the AMD business, and a gain on the sale of a building, for fiscal   2016   and   2015   was   33.3%   and   33.5%  , respectively.  The decrease in the Adjusted effective tax rate was due to the usage of foreign tax credits in a repatriation of foreign earnings in fiscal   2016  , partially offset by the resolution of certain tax matters during fiscal   2015  . 

30 

Net Earnings from Continuing Operations and Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations 
    
  Net earnings from continuing operations   increased     8%   on higher earnings from continuing operations before income taxes and a   lower   effective tax rate, as described above.  Net earnings from continuing operations growth was unfavorably impacted   one percentage point   by foreign currency translation in fiscal   2016  .  Diluted EPS from continuing operations increased   12%   to   $3.25   in fiscal   2016  , as compared to   $2.89   in fiscal   2015  .  Diluted EPS growth was unfavorably impacted   one percentage point   due to foreign currency translation in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  . 
    
  In fiscal   2016  , our diluted EPS from continuing operations reflects the   increase   in net earnings from continuing operations and the impact of fewer shares outstanding, resulting from the repurchase of approximately   13.8 million   shares in fiscal   2016   and   18.2 million   shares in fiscal   2015  , partially offset by the issuances of shares under our employee benefit plans. 
    
  Adjusted Net Earnings from Continuing Operations and Adjusted Diluted EPS from Continuing Operations 
    
  Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations increased   9%   in fiscal   2016   due to the   increase   in revenues and expenses described above and the impact of the   lower   Adjusted effective tax rate when compared to fiscal   2015  . 
    
  For fiscal   2016  , our Adjusted diluted EPS from continuing operations reflects the   increase   in Adjusted net earnings from continuing operations and the impact of fewer shares outstanding as a result of the repurchase of   13.8 million   shares during fiscal   2016   and the repurchase of   18.2 million   shares in fiscal   2015  , offset by shares issued under our employee benefit plans. 

ANALYSIS OF REPORTABLE SEGMENTS 
    
  Revenues from Continuing Operations 
    
  (In millions) 

Earnings from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 
    
  (In millions) 

31 

Employer Services 
    
  Fiscal   2017   Compared to Fiscal   2016    
    
  Revenues 
    
  Employer Services' revenues, as reported,   increase  d   4%   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  , which includes one percentage point of pressure from the net impact of acquisitions, the disposition of our CHSA and COBRA businesses, and foreign currency translation.  Revenues increased primarily due to new business started from new business bookings.  Our revenues also benefited from the impact of an increase in the number of employees on our clients  payrolls as our pays per control increased 2.4% in fiscal   2017   as compared to fiscal   2016  .  The increases were partially offset by the impact of client losses and the sale of the CHSA and COBRA businesses during fiscal   2017  .  Our worldwide client revenue retention rate for fiscal   2017   decreased   50   basis points to 90.0% as compared to our rate for fiscal   2016  , primarily driven by the lower retention on our legacy client platforms and the anticipated loss of a large client within our former CHSA business. 
    
  Earnings from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 
    
  Employer Services  earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, as reported,   increase  d   4%   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  The   increase   was due to   increase  d revenues discussed above, which was partially offset by   an increase   in expenses of   $202.4 million  .  The   increase   in expenses is related to increased costs of servicing our clients on growing revenues as well as investments in our sales organization, partially offset by the disposition of the CHSA and COBRA businesses during fiscal   2017  . 
    
  Employer Services' overall margin   increase  d from   30.4%   to   30.6%   for fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  This   20   basis point   increase   was driven by operational efficiencies partially offset by 30 basis points of pressure from dual operation costs related to our Service Alignment Initiative.  
    
  Fiscal   2016   Compared to Fiscal   2015    
    
  Revenues 
    
  Employer Services' revenues, as reported,   increase  d   5%   in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  , despite a negative impact of one percentage point from foreign currency translation.  Revenues   increase  d due to new business started from new business bookings, the impact of price increases, and an increase in the number of employees on our clients  payrolls as our U.S. pays per control increased 2.5% in fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015  .  These increases were partially offset by the impact of client losses and foreign currency translation.  Our worldwide client revenue retention rate for fiscal   2016   decreased 100 basis points to 90.5% as compared to our rate for fiscal   2015   primarily due to elevated losses on our legacy platforms. 
    
  Earnings from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 
    
  Employer Services  earnings from continuing operations before income taxes, as reported,   increase  d   8%   in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  .  The   increase   was due to   increase  d revenues discussed above, which was partially offset by   an increase   in expenses of $191.8 million.  The   increase   in expenses is related to increased costs of servicing our clients, as well as increased selling and implementation expenses due to new business bookings and associated implementation costs, including an increase in costs related to assisting our clients with ACA compliance.  These increases were partially offset by the impact of foreign currency translation.   
    
  Employer Services' overall margin   increase  d from 29.4% to   30.4%   for fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  .  This   increase   is due to lower selling expenses in the fourth quarter of fiscal   2016   as compared to fiscal   2015   as well as an increase of   30   basis points from foreign currency translation, partially offset by investments in implementation and operational resources to support our revenue growth. 

32 

PEO Services 
    
  Fiscal   2017   Compared to Fiscal   2016    
    
  Revenues 
    
  PEO Services' revenues as reported   increased     13%   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  Such revenues include pass-through costs of $2,628.4 million for fiscal year   2017   and $2,336.3 million for fiscal year   2016   associated with benefits coverage, workers' compensation coverage, and state unemployment taxes for worksite employees.  The   increase   in revenues was due to a   12%   increase in the average number of worksite employees, driven by an increase in the number of new PEO Services clients and growth in our existing clients. 
    
  Earnings from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 
    
  PEO Services  earnings from continuing operations before income taxes   increased     21%   in fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  The   increase   was due to   increase  d revenues discussed above, which was partially offset by an   increase   in expenses of   $333.1 million  .  This   increase   in expenses is primarily related to   an increase   in pass-through costs of   $292.1 million  .  Overall margin   increase  d from   12.1%   to   12.9%   for fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  , due to operating efficiencies, as our operating costs related to servicing our clients increased slower than our revenues.   
       
  Fiscal   2016   Compared to Fiscal   2015    
    
  Revenues 
    
  PEO Services' revenues as reported   increased   16% in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  .  Such revenues include pass-through costs of   $2,336.3 million   for fiscal   2016   and   $2,015.9 million   for fiscal   2015   associated with benefits coverage, workers' compensation coverage, and state unemployment taxes for worksite employees.  The   increase   in revenues was due to a   13%   increase in the average number of worksite employees, driven by an increase in the number of new PEO Services clients and growth in our existing clients, as well as higher client participation and higher benefit pass-through costs in our PEO benefit offerings. 
    
  Earnings from Continuing Operations before Income Taxes 
    
  PEO Services  earnings from continuing operations before income taxes   increased   23% in fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  .  The   increase   was due to   increase  d revenues discussed above, which was partially offset by an   increase   in expenses of $356.5 million.  This   increase   in expenses is primarily related to   an increase   in pass-through costs of   $320.4 million   described above.  Overall margin   increase  d from   11.4%   to   12.1%   for fiscal   2016  , as compared to fiscal   2015  , due to operating efficiencies, as our operating costs related to servicing our clients increased slower than our revenues, and sales efficiencies. 
    
  Other 
    
  The primary components of  Other  are non-recurring gains and losses, miscellaneous processing services, the elimination of intercompany transactions, interest expense, the results of operations of ADP Indemnity, certain charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, and the historical results of the AMD business. Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal   2017  , our chief operating decision maker began reviewing the Company's results with stock-based compensation included in the Company's operating segments.  This change, as well as changes to the allocation methodology for certain corporate level allocations, has been adjusted in both the current period and the prior period in the table above, and did not materially affect reportable segment results. 

33 

ADP Indemnity provides workers' compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services' worksite employees up to $1 million per occurrence.  PEO Services has secured a workers  compensation and employer s liability insurance policy that has a $1 million per occurrence retention and, in fiscal years 2012 and prior, aggregate stop loss insurance that covers any aggregate losses within the $1 million retention that collectively exceed a certain level, from an admitted and licensed insurance company of AIG.  We utilize historical loss experience and actuarial judgment to determine the estimated claim liability for the PEO Services business.  Premiums are charged by ADP Indemnity to PEO Services to cover the claims expected to be incurred by the PEO Services' worksite employees.  The premiums charged from ADP Indemnity to PEO Services are eliminated in Other.  Changes in estimated ultimate incurred losses are recognized by ADP Indemnity and included in Other.  For the fiscal years 2013 to   2017  , ADP Indemnity paid premiums to enter into reinsurance arrangements with ACE American Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb Limited, to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity during these policy years.  Each of these reinsurance arrangements limits our overall exposure incurred up to a certain limit.  We believe the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote.  During fiscal   2017  , ADP Indemnity paid a premium of   $221.0 million   to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal   2017   policy year up to $1 million per occurrence related to the workers' compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services' worksite employees.  ADP Indemnity paid a premium of   $235.0 million   in July   2017   to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the year ended   June 30, 2018   ("fiscal   2018  ") policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal   2017   reinsurance policy. 

FINANCIAL CONDITION, LIQUIDITY AND CAPITAL RESOURCES 
    
  For corporate liquidity, we expect existing cash, cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, long-term marketable securities, and cash flow from operations together with our   $9.5 billion   of committed credit facilities and our ability to access both long-term and short-term debt financing from the capital markets will be adequate to meet our operating, investing, and financing activities such as regular quarterly dividends, share repurchases, and capital expenditures.  
    
  For client funds liquidity, we have the ability to borrow through our financing arrangements under our U.S. short-term commercial paper program and our U.S. and Canadian short-term reverse repurchase agreements together with our   $9.5 billion   of committed credit facilities and our ability to use corporate liquidity when necessary to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations.  Please see Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk for a further discussion of the risks of our client funds investment strategy.  See Note   9   of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including commercial paper.  
    
  As of   June 30, 2017  , cash and short-term marketable securities were $  2,783.6 million  , which were primarily invested in time deposits and money market funds. 
    
  Operating, Investing and Financing Cash Flows 
    
  Our cash flows from operating, investing, and financing activities, as reflected in the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows for the years ended   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , are summarized as follows:  

34 

Fiscal   2017   Compared to Fiscal   2016    
    
  Net cash flows   provided by   operating activities   increase  d due to growth in our business and favorable changes in our working capital, which was due to the timing of payments from our clients and to our vendors in the ordinary course of business.   
    
  Net cash flows from investing activities changed due to the timing of receipts and disbursements of restricted cash and                                                                        cash equivalents held to satisfy client funds obligations of   $15,061.8 million  , as well as the timing of purchases of corporate and client funds marketable securities of   $1,493.5 million  . These increases were partially offset by a decrease in the proceeds from the sales and maturities of corporate and client fund marketable securities of   $1,621.8 million  .  
    
  Net cash flows from financing activities changed due to the net decrease in client funds obligations of   $14,923.9 million  , as a result of the timing of cash received and payments made related to client funds, and proceeds from our $2.0 billion September 2015 debt issuance. 
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
  We purchased approximately   13.5 million   shares of our common stock at an average price per share of   $94.42   during fiscal   2017   as compared to purchases of   13.8 million   shares at an average price per share of   $82.88   during fiscal   2016  .  From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase programs.  The Company considers several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, actual and potential acquisition activity, cash balances and cash flows, issuances due to employee benefit plan activity, and market conditions.  
    
  Fiscal   2016   Compared to Fiscal   2015    
    
  Net cash flows provided by operating activities decreased due to $226.7 million received from the sale of notes receivable related to Dealer Services financing arrangements during fiscal 2015. 
    
  Net cash flows used in investing activities increased due to the timing of receipts and disbursements of restricted cash and cash equivalents held to satisfy client funds obligations of $5,257.6 million and the receipt of the CDK Global, Inc. ("CDK") dividend during fiscal 2015, partially offset by the timing of purchases of and proceeds from corporate and client funds marketable securities of $545.7 million. 
    
  Net cash flows provided by financing activities increased due to the net increase in client funds obligations of $2,728.9 million, as a result of the timing of cash received and payments made related to client funds, proceeds from our $2.0 billion September 2015 debt issuance, a decrease in our repurchases of common stock, and the timing of borrowings and repayments of commercial paper. We purchased approximately 13.8 million shares of our common stock at an average price per share of $82.88 during fiscal 2016 as compared to purchases of 18.2 million shares at an average price per share of $85.28 during fiscal 2015. From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase programs. The Company considers several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, actual and potential acquisition activity, cash balances and cash flows, issuances due to employee benefit plan activity, and market conditions. 
    
  Capital Resources and Client Fund Obligations 
    
  In September 2015, we issued $2.0 billion of senior unsecured notes with maturity dates in 2020 and 2025.  We may from time to time revisit the long-term debt market to refinance existing debt, finance investments including acquisitions for our growth, and maintain the appropriate capital structure.  However, there can be no assurance that volatility in the global capital and credit markets would not impair our ability to access these markets on terms acceptable to us, or at all.  See Note 10 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our long-term financing, including this fiscal 2016 debt issuance. 
    
  Our U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities.  During the majority of fiscal   2017  , this commercial paper program provided for the issuance of up to   $9.25 billion   in aggregate maturity value and in June 2017, we increased our commercial paper program to   $9.5 billion  .  Our commercial paper program is rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor s and Prime-1 by Moody s.  These ratings denote the highest quality commercial paper securities.  Maturities of commercial paper can range from overnight to up to 364 days.  In fiscal   2017   and   2016  , our average daily borrowings were   $3.1 billion   and   $2.7 billion  , respectively, at a weighted average interest rate of   0.6%   and   0.3%  , respectively.   The weighted average maturity of the Company s commercial paper  
  
   35 

during fiscal   2017   was approximately   two days  .  At   June 30, 2017   and 2016, we had   no   outstanding obligations under our short-term commercial paper program.  
    
  Our U.S. and Canadian short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations are sometimes obtained on a secured basis through the use of reverse repurchase agreements, which are collateralized principally by government and government agency securities, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities. These agreements generally have terms ranging from overnight to up to five business days.  We have successfully borrowed through the use of reverse repurchase agreements on an as needed basis to meet short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations.  At   June 30, 2017   and 2016, there were no outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements.  For fiscal   2017   and   2016  , we had average outstanding balances under reverse repurchase agreements of   $274.8 million   and   $341.0 million  , respectively, at weighted average interest rates of   0.6%   and   0.4%  , respectively.  See Note   9   of our Consolidated Financial Statements for client fund investments used as collateral for reverse repurchase agreements.  
    
  We vary the maturities of our committed credit facilities to limit the refinancing risk of any one facility.  We have a   $3.5 billion  , 364-day credit agreement with a group of lenders that matures in   June 2018   with a one year term-out option.  In addition, we have a five-year   $3.75 billion   credit facility and a five-year   $2.25 billion   credit facility maturing in   June 2021   and   June 2022  , respectively, each with an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by $  500 million  , subject to the availability of additional commitments.  The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary.  We had no borrowings through   June 30, 2017   under the credit agreements. We believe that we currently meet all conditions set forth in revolving credit agreements to borrow thereunder, and we are not aware of any conditions that would prevent us from borrowing part or all of the   $9.5 billion   available to us under the revolving credit agreements.  See Note 6 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our short-term financing including credit facilities. 
    
  Our investment portfolio does not contain any asset-backed securities with underlying collateral of sub-prime mortgages, alternative-A mortgages, sub-prime auto loans or sub-prime home equity loans, collateralized debt obligations, collateralized loan obligations, credit default swaps, derivatives, auction rate securities, structured investment vehicles or non-investment grade fixed-income securities.  We own AAA rated senior tranches of fixed rate credit card, auto loan, equipment lease, and rate reduction, secured predominately by prime collateral.  All collateral on asset-backed securities is performing as expected.  In addition, we own senior debt directly issued by Federal Home Loan Banks and Federal Farm Credit Banks.  We do own mortgage-backed securities, which represent an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a group or pool of one or more residential mortgages.  These securities are collateralized by the cash flows of 15-year and 30-year residential mortgages and are guaranteed primarily by Federal National Mortgage Association as to the timely payment of principal and interest.  Our client funds investment strategy is structured to allow us to average our way through an interest rate cycle by laddering the maturities of our investments out to five years (in the case of the extended portfolio) and out to ten years (in the case of the long portfolio).  This investment strategy is supported by our short-term financing arrangements necessary to satisfy short-term funding requirements relating to client funds obligations.  See Note 6 of our Consolidated Financial Statements for a description of our corporate investments and funds held for clients. 
    
  Capital expenditures for continuing operations for fiscal   2017   were $249.1 million, as compared to   $165.7 million   for fiscal   2016  . We expect capital expenditures in fiscal   2018   to be about $200 million.  

36 

Contractual Obligations 
    
       The following table provides a summary of our contractual obligations at   June 30, 2017  : 

(1) 
    These amounts represent the principal and interest payments of our debt.   
       
           (2) 
    Included in these amounts are various facilities and equipment leases.  We enter into operating leases in the normal course of business relating to facilities and equipment.  The majority of our lease agreements have fixed payment terms based on the passage of time.  Certain facility and equipment leases require payment of maintenance and real estate taxes and contain escalation provisions based on future adjustments in price indices.  Our future operating lease obligations could change if we exit certain contracts or if we enter into additional operating lease agreements.   
       
           (3) 
    Purchase obligations are comprised of a   $235.0 million   reinsurance premium with Chubb for the fiscal   2018   policy year, as well as obligations related to software subscription licenses and purchase and maintenance agreements on our software, equipment, and other assets.  
       
           (4) 
    We are unable to make reasonably reliable estimates as to the period in which cash payments related to unrecognized tax benefits are expected to be paid. 
       
           (5) 
    Compensation and benefits primarily relates to amounts associated with our employee benefit plans and other compensation arrangements.  These amounts exclude the estimated contributions to our defined benefit plans, which are expected to be   $9.5 million   in fiscal   2018  . 
       
           (6) 
     Acquisition-related obligations relate to contingent consideration for a business acquisition for which the amount of contingent consideration was determinable at the date of acquisition and therefore included on the Consolidated Balance Sheet as a liability. 
       
  In addition to the obligations quantified in the table above, we had obligations for the remittance of funds relating to our payroll and payroll tax filing services.  As of   June 30, 2017  , the obligations relating to these matters, which are expected to be paid in fiscal   2018  , total   $27,189.4 million   and were recorded in client funds obligations on our Consolidated Balance Sheets.  We had   $27,291.5 million   of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities that were impounded from our clients to satisfy such obligations recorded in funds held for clients on our Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   June 30, 2017  . 
    
  Separately, ADP Indemnity paid a premium of   $235.0 million   in July   2017   to enter into a reinsurance agreement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity for the fiscal   2018   policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal   2017   reinsurance policy.  At   June 30, 2017  , ADP Indemnity had total assets of $533.9 million to satisfy the actuarially estimated unpaid losses of $459.7 million for the policy years since July 1, 2003.  ADP Indemnity paid claims of $10.7 million and $14.0 million, net of insurance recoveries, in fiscal   2017   and   2016  , respectively.  Refer to the "Analysis of Reportable Segments - Other" above for additional information regarding ADP Indemnity.   
    
  In the normal course of business, we also enter into contracts in which we make representations and warranties that relate to the performance of our services and products. We do not expect any material losses related to such representations and warranties.   

37 

Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 
    
  Our overall investment portfolio is comprised of corporate investments (cash and cash equivalents, short-term marketable securities, and long-term marketable securities) and client funds assets (funds that have been collected from clients but not yet remitted to the applicable tax authorities or client employees). 
    
  Our corporate investments are invested in cash and cash equivalents and highly liquid, investment-grade marketable securities.  These assets are available for repurchases of common stock for treasury and/or acquisitions, as well as other corporate operating purposes.  All of our short-term and long-term fixed-income securities are classified as available-for-sale securities. 
    
  Our client funds assets are invested with safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary objectives. Consistent with those objectives, we also seek to maximize interest income and to minimize the volatility of interest income.  Client funds assets are invested in highly liquid, investment-grade marketable securities, with a maximum maturity of 10 years at the time of purchase, and money market securities and other cash equivalents.   
       
  We utilize a strategy by which we extend the maturities of our investment portfolio for funds held for clients and employ short-term financing arrangements to satisfy our short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations.  Our client funds investment strategy is structured to allow us to average our way through an interest rate cycle by laddering the maturities of our investments out to five years (in the case of the extended portfolio) and out to ten years (in the case of the long portfolio).  As part of our client funds investment strategy, we use the daily collection of funds from our clients to satisfy other unrelated client funds obligations, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities.  We minimize the risk of not having funds collected from a client available at the time such client s obligation becomes due by impounding, in virtually all instances, the client s funds in advance of the timing of payment of such client s obligation.  As a result of this practice, we have consistently maintained the required level of client funds assets to satisfy all of our obligations. 
    
  There are inherent risks and uncertainties involving our investment strategy relating to our client funds assets.  Such risks include the risk associated with our ability to liquidate, if necessary, our available-for-sale securities in a timely manner in order to satisfy our client funds obligations.  However, our investments are made with the safety of principal, liquidity, and diversification as the primary goals to minimize the risk of not having sufficient funds to satisfy all of our client funds obligations.  We also believe we have significantly reduced the risk of not having sufficient funds to satisfy our client funds obligations by consistently maintaining access to other sources of liquidity, including our corporate cash balances, available borrowings under our   $9.5 billion   commercial paper program (rated A-1+ by Standard and Poor s and Prime-1 ("P-1") by Moody s, the highest possible credit ratings), our ability to engage in reverse repurchase agreements and available borrowings under our   $9.5 billion   committed credit facilities.  The reduced availability of financing during periods of economic turmoil, even to borrowers with the highest credit ratings, may limit our ability to access short-term debt markets to meet the liquidity needs of our business.  In addition to liquidity risk, our investments are subject to interest rate risk and credit risk, as discussed below. 
    
  We have established credit quality, maturity, and exposure limits for our investments.  The minimum allowed credit rating at time of purchase for corporate and Canadian provincial bonds is BBB, for asset-backed securities is AAA, and for municipal bonds is A.  The maximum maturity at time of purchase for BBB rated securities is 5 years, for single A rated securities is 7 years, and for AA rated and AAA rated securities is 10 years.  Time deposits and commercial paper must be rated A-1 and/or P-1.  Money market funds must be rated AAA/Aaa-mf. 

38 

Details regarding our overall investment portfolio are as follows: 

We are exposed to interest rate risk in relation to securities that mature, as the proceeds from maturing securities are reinvested.  Factors that influence the earnings impact of interest rate changes include, among others, the amount of invested funds and the overall portfolio mix between short-term and long-term investments.  This mix varies during the fiscal year and is impacted by daily interest rate changes.  The annualized interest rate earned on our entire portfolio increased slightly to   1.6%   for fiscal   2017  , as compared to fiscal   2016  .  A hypothetical change in both short-term interest rates (e.g., overnight interest rates or the federal funds rate) and intermediate-term interest rates of 25 basis points applied to the estimated average investment balances and any related short-term borrowings would result in approximately a $11 million impact to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes over the ensuing twelve-month period ending   June 30, 2018  .  A hypothetical change in only short-term interest rates of 25 basis points applied to the estimated average short-term investment balances and any related short-term borrowings would result in approximately a $6 million impact to earnings from continuing operations before income taxes over the ensuing twelve-month period ending   June 30, 2018  . 
    
  We are exposed to credit risk in connection with our available-for-sale securities through the possible inability of the borrowers to meet the terms of the securities.  We limit credit risk by investing in investment-grade securities, primarily AAA and AA rated securities, as rated by Moody s, Standard   Poor s, and for Canadian securities, DBRS. Approximately   79%   of our available-for-sale securities held a AAA or AA rating at   June 30, 2017  .  In addition, we limit amounts that can be invested in any security other than U.S. and Canadian government or government agency securities. 
    
  We operate and transact business in various foreign jurisdictions and are therefore exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact our consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows. We manage our exposure to these market risks through our regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.  We may use derivative financial instruments as risk management tools and not for trading purposes.  We had no derivative financial instruments outstanding at   June 30, 2017   or   2016  .  

39 

RECENTLY ISSUED ACCOUNTING PRONOUNCEMENTS 
    
  See Note 1, New Accounting Pronouncements, of Notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements for a discussion of recent accounting pronouncements. 
    
  CRITICAL ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
    
  Our Consolidated Financial Statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with U.S. GAAP.  The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates, judgments, and assumptions that affect reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, and expenses. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates used to prepare the Consolidated Financial Statements. The estimates are based on historical experience and assumptions believed to be reasonable under current facts and circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ from these estimates made by management. Certain accounting policies that require significant management estimates and are deemed critical to our results of operations or financial position are discussed below. 
    
    Revenue Recognition.     Our     revenues are primarily attributable to fees for providing services (  e.g.,   Employer Services' payroll processing fees), investment income on payroll funds, payroll tax filing funds and other Employer Services' client-related funds, and fees charged to implement clients on the Company's solutions.  We enter into agreements for a fixed fee per transaction (  e.g.,   number of payees or number of payrolls processed).  Fees associated with services are recognized in the period services are rendered and earned under service arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. 
    
  PEO provides a comprehensive human resources outsourcing solution, including offering benefits, providing workers  compensation insurance, and administering state unemployment insurance, among other human resources functions.  Amounts collected from PEO worksite employers include payroll, fees for benefits, and an administrative fee that also includes payroll taxes, fees for workers  compensation and state unemployment taxes. 
    
  The payroll and payroll taxes collected from the worksite employers are presented in revenue net, as the Company is not the primary obligor with respect to this aspect of the PEO arrangement.  With respect to the payroll and payroll taxes, the worksite employer is the primary obligor, has latitude in establishing price, selects suppliers, and determines the service specifications. 
    
  The fees collected from the worksite employers for benefits, workers  compensation and state unemployment taxes are presented in revenues and the associated costs of benefits, workers  compensation and state unemployment taxes are included in operating expenses, as the Company acts as a principal with respect to this aspect of the arrangement.  With respect to the fees for benefits, workers  compensation and state unemployment taxes, the Company is the primary obligor, has latitude in establishing price, selects suppliers, determines the service specifications and is liable for credit risk. 
       
  We recognize interest income on collected but not yet remitted funds held for clients in revenues as earned, as the collection, holding and remittance of these funds are critical components of providing these services. 
    
  Client implementation fees are charged to set clients up on our solutions and are deferred until the client has gone live and services have begun.  These fees are amortized to revenue over the longer of the contractual term or expected client life, including estimated renewals of client contracts.    
       
  We assess the collectability of revenues based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer's payment history.   
    
  Goodwill  .  We account for goodwill in accordance with Accounting Standards Codification ("ASC") 350, "Intangibles - Goodwill and Other," which requires that goodwill be tested for impairment annually whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable.  According to ASC 350, we can opt to perform a qualitative assessment to test a reporting unit s goodwill for impairment or can directly perform the two-step impairment test.  Based on a qualitative assessment, if it is determined that the fair value of a reporting unit is more likely than not less than its carrying amount, the two-step impairment test prescribed by ASC 350 would be performed.  
    
  Our annual goodwill impairment assessment as of   June 30, 2017   was performed using a qualitative approach.  The qualitative assessment considered industry and market considerations for any deterioration in the environment in which we operate, the competitive environment, a decline (both absolute and relative to peers) in market-dependent multiples or metrics, any changes in the market for our services, and regulatory and political development.  Additionally, we assessed financial  
  
   40 

performance by reporting unit and considered cost factors, such as labor or other costs, that would have a negative effect on results.  The annual goodwill impairment assessments performed for fiscal   2017   have indicated that it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units is substantially in excess of carrying value and not at risk of failing step one of the quantitative goodwill impairment test.  Based on our qualitative assessment, the Company has determined that goodwill is not impaired. 
    
  Income Taxes.    The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entity's financial statements or tax returns.  Judgment is required in addressing the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in our Consolidated Financial Statements or tax returns (  e.g.  , realization of deferred tax assets, changes in tax laws or interpretations thereof).  In addition, we are subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service ("IRS") and other tax authorities.  A change in the assessment of the outcomes of such matters could materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
    
  There is a financial statement recognition threshold and measurement attribute for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.  Specifically, the likelihood of an entity's tax benefits being sustained must be  more likely than not   assuming that those positions will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information prior to recording the related tax benefit in the financial statements.  If a tax position drops below the  more likely than not  standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized.  Assumptions, judgment and the use of estimates are required in determining if the  more likely than not  standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes.  A change in the assessment of the  more likely than not  standard could materially impact our Consolidated Financial Statements.  As of   June 30, 2017   and   2016  , the Company's liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, which include interest and penalties, were   $74.6 million   and   $27.4 million  , respectively. 
    
  If certain pending tax matters settle within the next twelve months, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease for all open tax years and jurisdictions.  Based on current estimates, favorable settlements related to various jurisdictions and tax periods could increase earnings up to   $35 million   in the next twelve months.  Audit outcomes and the timing of audit settlements are subject to significant uncertainty. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. 
    
    Stock-Based Compensation  . We measure stock-based compensation expense based on the fair value of the award on the date of grant. We determine the fair value of stock options issued by using a binomial option-pricing model.  The binomial option-pricing model considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, dividend yield, risk-free interest rate, and employee exercise behavior. Expected volatilities utilized in the binomial option-pricing model are based on a combination of implied market volatilities, historical volatility of our stock price, and other factors.  Similarly, the dividend yield is based on historical experience and expected future changes. The risk-free rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.  The binomial option-pricing model also incorporates exercise and forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data.  The expected life of the stock option grants is derived from the output of the binomial model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding.  Determining these assumptions is subjective and complex, and, therefore, a change in the assumptions utilized could impact the calculation of the fair value of our stock options. 

Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
    
    The information called for by this item is provided under the caption  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  under  Item 7 - Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operation.  
  
   41 

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  Automatic Data Processing, Inc. 
  Roseland, New Jersey 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2017. Our audits also included the financial statement schedule listed in the Index at Item 15(a) 2. These financial statements and financial statement schedule are the responsibility of the Company's management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the financial statements and financial statement schedules based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and subsidiaries as of June 30, 2017 and 2016, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended June 30, 2017, in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also, in our opinion, such financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, present fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2017, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated August 4, 2017 expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting.                                            
               /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Parsippany, New Jersey 
  August 4, 2017    

42 

Statements of Consolidated Earnings 
  (In millions, except per share amounts) 

(A) For the years ended   June 30,     2017   ("fiscal   2017  "),   June 30,     2016   ("fiscal   2016  "), and   June 30,     2015   ("fiscal   2015  "), Professional Employer Organization ("PEO") revenues are net of direct pass-through costs, primarily consisting of payroll wages and payroll taxes, of   $34,567.4 million  ,   $30,928.6 million  , and   $26,674.1 million  , respectively. 
    
  See notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   43 

Statements of Consolidated Comprehensive Income 
  (In millions) 

See notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  
   44 

Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  (In millions, except per share amounts) 

See notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   45 

Statements of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity 
  (In millions, except per share amounts) 

See notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   46 

Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows 
  (In millions) 

See notes to the Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   47 

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  (Tabular dollars in millions, except per share amounts) 
   
  NOTE   1  . SUMMARY OF SIGNIFICANT ACCOUNTING POLICIES 
    
  A. Basis of Preparation.    The accompanying Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and its subsidiaries ( ADP  or the  Company ) have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America ( U.S. GAAP ).  Intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
    
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the assets, liabilities, revenues, costs, expenses, and accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) that are reported in the Consolidated Financial Statements and footnotes thereto.  Actual results may differ from those estimates.  The Consolidated Financial Statements and all relevant footnotes have been adjusted for all businesses that qualify as a discontinued operation (see Note   3  ).  
    
  B. Description of Business.    The Company is a provider of cloud-based Human Capital Management ("HCM") solutions. The Company classifies its operations into the following two reportable segments: Employer Services and Professional Employer Organization ( PEO ) Services.  The primary components of  Other  are non-recurring gains and losses, miscellaneous processing services, the elimination of intercompany transactions, interest expense, the results of operations of ADP Indemnity, certain charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, and the historical results of the AdvancedMD ("AMD") business.  Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company's chief operating decision maker began reviewing the Company's results with stock-based compensation included in the Company's operating segments.    This change, as well as changes to the allocation methodology for certain corporate level allocations and the movement of the historical results of  AMD to Other, has been adjusted in both the current period and the prior period and did not materially affect reportable segment results.  Prior to October 1, 2014, the Company had a third reportable segment, Dealer Services.  See Note 3 for further information. 
    
  C. Revenue Recognition.    Revenues are primarily attributable to fees for providing services (  e.g.,   Employer Services' payroll processing fees), investment income on payroll funds, payroll tax filing funds, other Employer Services' client-related funds, and fees charged to implement clients on the Company's solutions.  The Company enters into agreements for a fixed fee per transaction (  e.g.,   number of payees or number of payrolls processed).  Fees associated with services are recognized in the period services are rendered and earned under service arrangements with clients where service fees are fixed or determinable and collectability is reasonably assured. 
    
  PEO provides a comprehensive human resources outsourcing solution, including offering benefits, providing workers  compensation insurance, and administering state unemployment insurance, among other human resources functions.  Amounts collected from PEO worksite employers include payroll, fees for benefits, and an administrative fee that also includes payroll taxes, fees for workers  compensation and state unemployment taxes. 
    
  The payroll and payroll taxes collected from the worksite employers are presented in revenue net, as the Company is not the primary obligor with respect to this aspect of the PEO arrangement.  With respect to the payroll and payroll taxes, the worksite employer is the primary obligor, has latitude in establishing price, selects suppliers, and determines the service specifications. 
    
  The fees collected from the worksite employers for benefits, workers  compensation and state unemployment taxes are presented in revenues and the associated costs of benefits, workers  compensation and state unemployment taxes are included in operating expenses, as the Company acts as a principal with respect to this aspect of the arrangement.  With respect to the fees for benefits, workers  compensation and state unemployment taxes, the Company is the primary obligor, has latitude in establishing price, selects suppliers, determines the service specifications and is liable for credit risk. 
    
  Interest income on collected but not yet remitted funds held for clients is recognized in revenues as earned, as the collection, holding and remittance of these funds are critical components of providing these services. 
  
   48 

Client implementation fees are charged to set clients up on the Company's platform and are deferred until the client has gone live on the Company's solutions and services have begun.  These fees are amortized to revenue over the longer of the contractual term or the expected client life, including estimated renewals of client contracts.  Additionally, certain implementation costs are deferred until the client has gone live on the Company's solution and services have begun and are then amortized over the longer of the contractual term or the expected client life, including estimated renewals of client contracts.   
    
  The Company assesses the collectability of revenues based primarily on the creditworthiness of the customer as determined by credit checks and analysis, as well as the customer's payment history.   
    
  D. Cash and Cash Equivalents.    Highly liquid investment securities with a maturity of ninety days or less at the time of purchase are considered cash equivalents.  The fair value of our cash and cash equivalents approximates carrying value. 
    
  E. Corporate Investments and Funds Held for Clients.    All of the Company's marketable securities are considered to be  available-for-sale  and, accordingly, are carried on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at fair value.  Unrealized gains and losses, net of the related tax effect, are excluded from earnings and are reported as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets until realized.  Realized gains and losses from the sale of available-for-sale securities are determined on a specific-identification basis and are included in other income, net on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings. 
    
  If the fair value of an available-for-sale debt security is below its amortized cost, the Company assesses whether it intends to sell the security or if it is more likely than not the Company will be required to sell the security before recovery.  If either of those two conditions is met, the Company would recognize a charge in earnings equal to the entire difference between the security's amortized cost basis and its fair value.  If the Company does not intend to sell a security or it is not more likely than not that it will be required to sell the security before recovery, the unrealized loss is separated into an amount representing the credit loss, which is recognized in earnings, and the amount related to all other factors, which is recognized in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   
    
  Premiums and discounts are amortized or accreted over the life of the related available-for-sale security as an adjustment to yield using the effective-interest method.  Dividend and interest income are recognized when earned.  
  F. Fair Value Measurements.    Fair value is defined as the price that would be received to sell an asset or paid to transfer a liability (an exit price) in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date and is based upon the Company s principal, or most advantageous, market for a specific asset or liability. 
    
  U.S. GAAP provides for a three-level hierarchy of inputs to valuation techniques used to measure fair value, defined as follows: 
    
  Level 1  Fair value is determined based upon quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities that are traded in active markets. 
    
  Level 2  Fair value is determined based upon inputs other than quoted prices included in Level 1 that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly, for substantially the full term of the asset or liability, including: 
    quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; 
    quoted prices for identical or similar assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; 
    inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the asset or liability; or 
    inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means. 
    
  Level 3  Fair value is determined based upon inputs that are unobservable and reflect the Company s own assumptions about the assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability based upon the best information available in the circumstances (e.g., internally derived assumptions surrounding the timing and amount of expected cash flows). 
    
  The Company's corporate investments and funds held for clients (see Note 6) and its long term debt are measured at fair value on a recurring basis as described below.  Over   99%   of the Company's available-for-sale securities included in Level 2 are valued based on prices obtained from an independent pricing service. To determine the fair value of the Company's Level 2 investments, the independent pricing service uses various pricing models for each asset class that are consistent with what other market participants would use, including the market approach.  Inputs and assumptions to the pricing model of the independent pricing service are derived from market observable sources including:  benchmark yields, reported trades, broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, benchmark securities, bids, offers and other market-related data. Since many fixed income securities do not  
  
   49 

trade on a daily basis, the independent pricing service applies available information, as applicable, through processes such as benchmark curves, benchmarking of like securities, sector groupings and matrix pricing to prepare valuations.  For the purposes of valuing the Company s asset-backed securities, as well as the mortgage-backed securities that are included within Other securities in Note 6, the independent pricing service includes additional inputs to the model such as monthly payment information, new issue data, and collateral performance.  For the purposes of valuing the Company s Municipal bonds, the independent pricing service includes Municipal Market Data benchmark yield curves as additional inputs to the model.  While the Company is not provided access to the proprietary models of the third party pricing service, each quarterly reporting period, the Company reviews the inputs utilized by the independent pricing service and compares the valuations received from the independent pricing service to valuations from at least one other observable source for reasonableness. The Company has not adjusted the prices obtained from the independent pricing service and the Company believes the prices received from the independent pricing service are representative of the prices that would be received to sell the assets at the measurement date (exit price). The Company has no available-for-sale securities included in Level 1 and Level 3. 
    
  In   September 2015  , the Company issued fixed-rate notes with   5  -year and   10  -year maturities for an aggregate principal amount of   $2.0 billion   (collectively the "Notes").  The  Notes are valued utilizing a variety of inputs obtained from an independent pricing service, including benchmark yields, reported trades, non-binding broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, and reference data.  The Company reviews the values generated by the independent pricing service for reasonableness by comparing the valuations received from the independent pricing service to valuations from at least one other observable source.  The Company has not adjusted the prices obtained from the independent pricing service.  
    
  The Company's assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement requires judgment and may affect the classification of assets and liabilities within the fair value hierarchy.  In certain instances, the inputs used to measure fair value may meet the definition of more than one level of the fair value hierarchy.  The significant input with the lowest level priority is used to determine the applicable level in the fair value hierarchy. 
    
  G. Property, Plant and Equipment.    Property, plant and equipment is stated at cost less accumulated depreciation on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Depreciation is recognized over the estimated useful lives of the assets using the straight-line method.  Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the term of the lease or the estimated useful lives of the improvements.  The estimated useful lives of assets are primarily as follows: 
                 Data processing equipment 
    2 to 5 years 
      Buildings 
    20 to 40 years 
      Furniture and fixtures 
    4 to 7 years 

The Company has obligations under various facilities and equipment leases.  The Company assesses whether these arrangements meet the criteria for capital leases by determining whether the agreement transfers ownership of the asset, whether the lease includes a bargain purchase option, whether the lease term is for greater than   75%   of the asset's useful life, or whether the minimum lease payments exceed   90%   of the leased equipment's fair market value.  All of the Company's leases are classified as operating leases.   Total expense under these operating lease agreements was approximately   $234.5 million  ,   $201.7 million  , and   $201.8 million   in fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  H. Goodwill.    Goodwill represents the excess of purchase price over the value assigned to the net tangible and identifiable intangible assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill is tested annually for impairment or more frequently when an event or circumstance indicates that goodwill might be impaired. 
    
  The Company's annual goodwill impairment assessment as of   June 30, 2017   was performed for all reporting units using a qualitative approach.  The qualitative assessment considered industry and market considerations for any deterioration in the environment in which the Company operates, the competitive environment, a decline (both absolute and relative to peers) in market-dependent multiples or metrics, any changes in the market for the Company's products and services, and regulatory and political developments. Additionally, the Company assessed financial performance by reporting unit and considered cost factors, such as labor or other costs, that would have a negative effect on results.  Based on the qualitative assessment, the Company has determined that goodwill is not impaired. 
    
  I. Impairment of Long-Lived Assets.    Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to  
  
   50 

be generated by the asset.  If the carrying amount of an asset exceeds its estimated future cash flows, an impairment charge is recognized for the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds the fair value of the asset.  
  J. Foreign Currency.    The net assets of the Company's foreign subsidiaries are translated into U.S. dollars based on exchange rates in effect for each period, and revenues and expenses are translated at average exchange rates in the periods.  Gains or losses from balance sheet translation are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  Currency transaction gains or losses, which are included in the results of operations, are not significant for all periods presented.  
    
  K. Foreign Currency Risk Management Programs and Derivative Financial Instruments.    The Company transacts business in various foreign jurisdictions and is therefore exposed to market risk from changes in foreign currency exchange rates that could impact its consolidated results of operations, financial position, or cash flows.  The Company manages its exposure to these market risks through its regular operating and financing activities and, when deemed appropriate, through the use of derivative financial instruments.  The Company does not use derivative financial instruments for trading purposes.   
    
  L. Earnings per Share ( EPS ).    The Company computes EPS in accordance with ASC 260.  
    
  The calculations of basic and diluted EPS are as follows: 

Options to purchase   1.0 million  ,   1.8 million  , and   0.4 million   shares of common stock for fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively, were excluded from the calculation of diluted earnings per share because their inclusion would have been anti-dilutive.  
       
  M. Stock-Based Compensation.    The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense in net earnings based on the fair value of the award on the date of the grant, and in the case of international units settled in cash, adjusts this fair value based on changes in the Company's stock price during the vesting period.  The Company determines the fair value of stock options issued using a binomial option-pricing model.  The binomial option-pricing model considers a range of assumptions related to volatility, dividend yield, risk-free interest rate, and employee exercise behavior.  Expected volatilities utilized in the binomial option-pricing model are based on a combination of implied market volatilities, historical volatility of the Company's stock price, and other factors.  Similarly, the dividend yield is based on historical experience and expected future changes.  The risk-free rate is derived from the U.S. Treasury yield curve in effect at the time of grant.  The binomial option-pricing model also incorporates exercise and forfeiture assumptions based on an analysis of historical data.  The expected life of a stock option grant is derived from the output of the binomial model and represents the period of time that options granted are expected to be outstanding.  Restricted stock units and restricted stock awards are valued based on the closing price of the Company's common stock on the date of the grant and, in the case of performance based restricted stock  
  
   51 

units and restricted stock, are adjusted for changes to probabilities of achieving performance targets.  International restricted stock units are settled in cash and are marked-to-market based on changes in the Company's stock price.  See Note   11   for additional information on the Company's stock-based compensation programs. 
    
  N. Internal Use Software.    Expenditures for major software purchases and software developed or obtained for internal use are capitalized and amortized over a   three   to   five  -year period on a straight-line basis.  The Company begins to capitalize costs incurred for computer software developed for internal use when the preliminary development efforts are successfully completed, management has authorized and committed to funding the project, and it is probable that the project will be completed and the software will be used as intended.  Capitalization ceases when a computer software project is substantially complete and ready for its intended use.  
    
  The Company's policy provides for the capitalization of external direct costs of materials and services associated with developing or obtaining internal use computer software.  In addition, the Company also capitalizes certain payroll and payroll-related costs for employees who are directly associated with internal use computer software projects.  The amount of capitalizable payroll costs with respect to these employees is limited to the time directly spent on such projects.  Costs associated with preliminary project stage activities, training, maintenance, and all other post-implementation stage activities are expensed as incurred.  The Company also expenses internal costs related to minor upgrades and enhancements, as it is impractical to separate these costs from normal maintenance activities. 
    
  O. Acquisitions.    Assets acquired and liabilities assumed in business combinations are recorded on the Company s Consolidated Balance Sheets as of the respective acquisition dates based upon their estimated fair values at such dates. The results of operations of businesses acquired by the Company are included in the Statements of Consolidated Earnings since their respective dates of acquisition. The excess of the purchase price over the estimated fair values of the underlying assets acquired and liabilities assumed is allocated to goodwill. In certain circumstances, the allocations of the excess purchase price are based upon preliminary estimates and assumptions and subject to revision when the Company receives final information, including appraisals and other analysis. Accordingly, the measurement period for such purchase price allocations will end when the information, or the facts and circumstances, becomes available, but will not exceed twelve months.  
    
  P. Income Taxes.    The objectives of accounting for income taxes are to recognize the amount of taxes payable or refundable for the current year and deferred tax liabilities and assets for the future tax consequences of events that have been recognized in an entity's financial statements or tax returns.  The Company is subject to the continuous examination of our income tax returns by the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) and other tax authorities.   
    
  There is a financial statement recognition threshold and measurement attribute for tax positions taken or expected to be taken in a tax return.  Specifically, the likelihood of  an entity's tax benefits being sustained must be  more likely than not,  assuming that these positions will be examined by taxing authorities with full knowledge of all relevant information prior to recording the related tax benefit in the financial statements.  If a tax position drops below the  more likely than not  standard, the benefit can no longer be recognized.  Assumptions, judgment, and the use of estimates are required in determining if the  more likely than not  standard has been met when developing the provision for income taxes.  As of   June 30, 2017   and   2016  , the Company's liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, which include interest and penalties, were   $74.6 million   and   $27.4 million  , respectively. 
    
  If certain pending tax matters settle within the next twelve months, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease for all open tax years and jurisdictions.  Based on current estimates, favorable settlements related to various jurisdictions and tax periods could increase earnings by up to   $35 million   in the next twelve months.  Audit outcomes and the timing of audit settlements are subject to significant uncertainty. We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability, and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. 
    
  Q. Workers' Compensation Costs.    The Company employs a third-party actuary to assist in determining the estimated claim liability related to workers' compensation and employer's liability coverage for PEO Services worksite employees.  In estimating ultimate loss rates, we utilize historical loss experience, exposure data, and actuarial judgment, together with a range of inputs which are primarily based upon the worksite employee's job responsibilities, their location, the historical frequency and severity of workers' compensation claims, and an estimate of future cost trends.  For each reporting period, changes in the actuarial assumptions resulting from changes in actual claims experience and other trends are incorporated into our workers' compensation claims cost estimates.  PEO Services has secured a workers  compensation and employer s liability insurance policy that has a $1 million per occurrence retention and, in fiscal years 2012 and prior, aggregate stop loss insurance that covers any aggregate losses within the $1 million retention that collectively exceed a certain level, from an admitted and licensed insurance company of AIG.  For the fiscal years 2013 to 2017, as well as in July 2017 for  
  
   52 

the year ended June 30, 2018 ("fiscal 2018") policy year, ADP Indemnity paid premiums to enter into reinsurance arrangements with ACE American Insurance Company, a wholly-owned subsidiary of Chubb Limited ("Chubb"), to cover substantially all losses incurred by ADP Indemnity during these policy years.  Each of these reinsurance arrangements limit our overall exposure incurred up to a certain limit.  The Company believes the likelihood of ultimate losses exceeding this limit is remote.  
    
  R. Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements.   
    
  Recently Adopted Accounting Pronouncements  
    
  In July 2016, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") 2016-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation - Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting (Topic 718)."  As a result of this standard, the Company prospectively recorded income tax benefits and deficiencies with respect to stock-based compensation as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement for periods beginning after July 1, 2016.  This resulted in a $  32.1 million   benefit in income tax expense for fiscal   2017  .  The Company retrospectively classified excess tax benefits as an operating activity on the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows, which increased operating cash flows and decreased financing cash flows by   $37.4 million   and   $68.4 million   for fiscal   2016   and   2015  , respectively.  See Note   12   for the impact of the prospective adoption of the excess tax benefits in the income statement for fiscal   2017  . 
    
  In July 2016, the Company prospectively adopted ASU 2015-05, "Customer's Accounting for Fees Paid in a Cloud Computing Arrangement."  The update provides guidance on whether a cloud computing arrangement includes a software license.  For new and materially modified cloud computing arrangements that include a software license entered into after July 1, 2016, the Company accounts for the software license element consistent with the acquisition of other software licenses.  If the new or materially modified cloud computing arrangement does not include a software license, the Company accounts for the arrangement as a service contract. The adoption of ASU 2015-05 did not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.  
    
  In July 2016, the Company prospectively adopted ASU 2015-04, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Practical Expedient for the Measurement Date of an Employer's Defined Benefit Obligation and Plan Assets."  The update allows an entity to remeasure their pension and other post-retirement benefit plan assets and liabilities at the month-end closest to a significant event such as a plan amendment, curtailment, or settlement. The adoption had no impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows as presented, however, the future impact of ASU 2015-04 will be dependent upon the nature of future significant events impacting the Company's pension plans, if any. 
    
  Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
    
  In May 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued ASU 2017-09, "Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 708) Scope of Modification Accounting."  ASU 2017-09 provides guidance about which changes to the terms and conditions of a share-based payment award require an entity to apply modification accounting.  The new standard is effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years.  ASU 2017-09 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows, however, the future impact will be dependent on the nature of future modifications of any share-based payment awards. 
    
  In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-08, "Receivables - Nonrefundable Fees and Other Costs: Premium Amortization on Purchased Callable Debt Securities."  ASU 2017-08 shortens the amortization period for certain callable debt securities held at a premium and requires the premium to be amortized to the earliest call date. ASU 2017-08 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018.  Early adoption is permitted.  ASU 2017-08 is not expected to have a material impact on the Company s consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 
    
  In March 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-07, "Compensation - Retirement Benefits (Topic 715): Improving the Presentation of Net Periodic Pension Cost and Net Periodic Post-retirement Benefit Cost."  ASU 2017-07 requires reporting the service cost component in the same line item or items as other compensation costs arising during the period in the Statements of Consolidated Earnings.  The other components of net periodic pension cost are required to be presented in the Statements of Consolidated Earnings separately from the service cost component.  Such changes are to be applied retrospectively from the date of adoption.  ASU 2017-07 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017.  Early adoption is permitted.  The Company has not yet determined the impact of ASU 2017-07 on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.  
    
  In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-04,  Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairments.  ASU 2017-04 establishes a one-step process for testing goodwill for a decrease in value, requiring  
  
   53 

a goodwill impairment loss to be measured as the excess of the reporting unit s carrying amount over its fair value.  The guidance eliminates the second step of the current two-step process that requires the impairment to be measured as the difference between the implied value of a reporting unit s goodwill with the goodwill s carrying amount.  ASU 2017-04 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019.  Early adoption is permitted for interim or annual impairment tests after January 1, 2017.  ASU 2017-04 is not expected to have an impact on the Company s consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 
    
  In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU 2017-01, "Business Combinations (Topic 805) - Clarifying the Definition of a Business," to clarify the definition of a business in order to allow for the evaluation of whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions or disposals of assets or businesses.  ASU 2017-01 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those fiscal years.  Early adoption is permitted.  The impact of ASU 2017-01 will be dependent upon the nature of future acquisitions or dispositions made by the Company, if any.  
    
  In November 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-18, "Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Restricted Cash."  ASU 2016-18 requires that the statement of cash flows explain the change during the period in the total of cash, cash equivalents, and restricted cash.  Accordingly, restricted cash will be included with cash and cash equivalents when reconciling the beginning-of-period and end-of-period total amounts shown on the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows.  ASU 2016-18 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, including interim periods within those fiscal years. Early adoption is permitted.  The Company expects to retrospectively adopt the new standard in its fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2017.  ASU 2016-18 will not have a material impact on the Company's consolidated results of operations or financial condition. 
    
  In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-02, "Leases (Topic 842)."  This update amends the existing accounting standards for lease accounting, and requires lessees to recognize virtually all of their leases on the balance sheet by recording a right-of-use asset and lease liabilities (other than leases that meet the definition of a "short-term lease").  ASU 2016-02 requires a modified retrospective transition approach for all leases existing at, or entered into after, the date of initial application.  ASU 2016-02 will be effective for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years.  Early adoption is permitted.  The Company has not yet determined the impact of ASU 2016-02 on its consolidated results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows. 
    
  In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU 2014-09, "Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606)," which outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance, including industry-specific guidance, and has since issued additional amendments to ASU 2014-09. These new standards require an entity to recognize revenue depicting the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled in exchange for those goods or services. The new standards will also result in enhanced revenue related disclosures. Entities have the option to apply the new guidance under a retrospective approach to each prior reporting period presented or a modified retrospective approach with the cumulative effect of initially applying the new guidance recognized at the date of initial application within the Statements of Consolidated Financial Position. The new standards are effective for fiscal years, and interim reporting periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption is permitted.  
    
  The Company had been assessing the impact of the new revenue recognition standard on its relationships with its clients.  In fiscal 2017, the Company determined it will not early adopt the standard, and instead will adopt the new standard in its fiscal year beginning on July 1, 2018.  Further, the Company anticipates applying the guidance under the full retrospective approach. The Company is nearly complete with its comprehensive diagnostic of the measurement and recognition provisions of the new standard and is in the process of finalizing its conclusions and policies.  The Company expects the provisions of the new standard to primarily impact the manner in which it treats certain costs to fulfill contracts (i.e., implementation costs) and costs to acquire new contracts (i.e., selling costs). The provisions of the new standard will require the Company to capitalize and amortize additional implementation costs than those capitalized and amortized under current U.S. GAAP.  Further, under current U.S. GAAP, the Company immediately expenses all selling expenses.  The provisions of the new standard will require that the Company capitalize incremental selling expenses such as commissions and bonuses paid to the salesforce for obtaining contracts with new clients and/or selling additional business to current clients.  These capitalized expenses will be amortized over the expected client life.  While the Company grows, the impact of deferring and amortizing additional costs creates higher overall pre-tax income, net earnings, and earnings per share, when compared to current U.S. GAAP.  The Company does not expect the provisions of the new standard to materially impact the timing or amount of revenue it recognizes.   
    
  The Company has not yet determined the impacts of all the disclosure requirements and specifically is assessing the manner in which it will disaggregate its revenue to illustrate how the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows are affected by economic factors.  Additionally, while the Company is in the process of assessing its accounting and  
  
   54 

forecasting processes to ensure its ability to record, report, forecast, and analyze results under the new standard, it is not expecting significant changes to its business processes or systems. 

55 

NOTE 2. ACQUISITIONS 
    
  The Company acquired   two   businesses during fiscal   2017   for total upfront cash consideration of approximately   $90.0 million   and contingent consideration of up to   $35.0 million  , which is payable over the next   three years  , subject to the achievement of specified financial metrics and/or other conditions.  The Company determined the fair value of the contingent consideration on the acquisition date using various estimates that are not observable in the market and represent a Level 3 measurement within the fair value hierarchy.  The acquisitions were not material to the Company's results of operations, financial position, or cash flows and, therefore, the pro forma impact of these acquisitions is not presented. The results of the acquisitions are reported within the Company s Employer Services segment.  As of June 30,   2017  , the Company had not yet finalized the purchase price allocation for these two acquisitions. 

NOTE   3  . DIVESTITURES  
    
  A. Dispositions 
    
  On   November 28, 2016  , the Company completed the sale of its Consumer Health Spending Account ("CHSA") and Consolidated Omnibus Reconciliation Act ("COBRA") businesses for a pre-tax gain of   $205.4 million  , and recorded such gain within Other income, net on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings.  The historical results of operations of these businesses are included in the Employer Services segment.   
    
  On   September 1, 2015  , the Company completed the sale of its AMD business for a pre-tax gain of   $29.1 million  , less costs to sell, and recorded such gain within Other income, net on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings.  The historical results of operations of this business are included in the Other segment.  
    
  The Company determined that the CHSA, COBRA and AMD divestitures did not meet the criteria for reporting discontinued operations under ASU 2014-08 as the disposition of these businesses does not represent a strategic shift that has a major effect on the Company's operations or financial results.  
    
  B. Discontinued Operations 
    
  On   June 26, 2015  , the Company completed the sale of its Procure-to-Pay business ("P2P") for a pre-tax gain of   $100.9 million  , less costs to sell, and recorded such gain within earnings from discontinued operations on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings.  
    
  On   September 30, 2014  , the Company completed the tax free spin-off of its former Dealer Services business, which was a separate reportable segment, into an independent publicly traded company called CDK Global, Inc. ("CDK").  As a result of the spin-off, ADP stockholders of record on   September 24, 2014   (the "record date") received   one   share of CDK common stock on September 30, 2014, par value   $0.01   per share, for every   three   shares of ADP common stock held by them on the record date and cash for any fractional shares of CDK common stock.  ADP distributed approximately   160.6 million   shares of CDK common stock in the distribution.  During the first quarter of fiscal   2016  , the Company became aware that   1.0 million   of the   160.6 million   shares of CDK stock distributed at the distribution date were inadvertently issued and distributed with respect to certain unvested Company equity awards.  The   1.0 million   shares were canceled during the first quarter of fiscal   2016  .  Such shares distributed as part of the spin-off did not have any impact to previously reported results of operations, financial condition, or cash flows.  The spin-off was made without the payment of any consideration or the exchange of any shares by ADP stockholders.  The spin-off, transitional, and on-going relationships between ADP and CDK are governed by the Separation and Distribution Agreement entered into between ADP and CDK and certain other ancillary agreements. 
    
  Incremental costs associated with the spin-off of CDK and divestiture of P2P of   $50.1 million   for fiscal   2015   are included in discontinued operations on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings. 

56 

Results for discontinued operations were as follows.  There were no results from discontinued operations in fiscal 2017.  

NOTE 4. SERVICE ALIGNMENT INITIATIVE 
    
  On July 28, 2016, the Company announced a Service Alignment Initiative that is intended to simplify the Company's service organization by aligning the Company's service operations to its strategic platforms and locations.  In fiscal 2016, the Company entered into leases in Norfolk, Virginia and Maitland, Florida, and in October 2016, the Company entered into a lease in Tempe, Arizona as part of this effort.  The Company began incurring charges for this initiative during the first quarter of the fiscal year and expects to continue to incur charges through the year ended June 30,   2018   ("fiscal   2018  ") as the initiative is executed.  The charges primarily relate to employee separation benefits recognized under ASC 712, and also include charges for the relocation of certain current Company employees, lease termination costs, and accelerated depreciation of fixed assets.  The Company expects to recognize pre-tax restructuring charges of about   $30 million   in fiscal 2018, consisting primarily of cash expenditures for employee separation benefits. 
    
  The table below summarizes the composition of the Company's Service Alignment Initiative charges:   

(a) Charges are recorded in selling, general and administrative expenses on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings.  
  (b) Other initiative costs include costs to relocate certain current Company employees to new locations, lease termination charges (both included within selling, general and administrative expenses on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings), and accelerated depreciation on fixed assets (included within depreciation and amortization on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings). 
  (c) All charges are included within the Other segment.  
  
   57 

Activity for the Service Alignment Initiative liability for fiscal   2017   was as follows: 

NOTE   5  . OTHER INCOME, NET 
    
  Other income, net consists of the following: 

During fiscal   2016  , the Company sold a building and, as a result, recorded a gain of   $13.9 million   in Other income, net, on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings. 
    
  During fiscal   2015  , the Company sold notes receivable related to Dealer Services financing arrangements for   $226.7 million  .  Although the sale of the notes receivable transfers the majority of the risk to the purchaser, the Company does retain a minimal level of credit risk on the sold receivables.  The cash received in exchange for the notes receivable sold was recorded within the operating activities on the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows and the gain on sale of   $1.4 million   was recorded within Other income, net on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings. 

58 

NOTE   6  . CORPORATE INVESTMENTS AND FUNDS HELD FOR CLIENTS 
    
  Corporate investments and funds held for clients at   June 30, 2017   and   2016   were as follows: 

(A) Included within available-for-sale securities are corporate investments with fair values of   $10.8 million   and funds held for clients with fair values of   $21,890.3 million  .  All available-for-sale securities were included in Level 2.  

(B) Included within available-for-sale securities are corporate investments with fair values of   $31.3 million   and funds held for clients with fair values of   $21,573.7 million  .  All available-for-sale securities were included in Level 2.  

59 

For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the Company's fair value methodologies, including the use of an independent third-party pricing service, see Note 1 "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."  The Company did not transfer any assets between Levels during fiscal   2017   or   2016  .  In addition, the Company did not adjust the prices obtained from the independent pricing service.  The Company has no available-for-sale securities included in Level 1 or Level 3 as of   June 30, 2017  .  
    
  The unrealized losses and fair values of available-for-sale securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than and greater than 12 months as of   June 30, 2017  , are as follows:  

The unrealized losses and fair values of available-for-sale securities that have been in an unrealized loss position for a period of less than and greater than 12 months as of   June 30, 2016   are as follows:  

At   June 30, 2017  , Corporate bonds include investment-grade debt securities, which include a wide variety of issuers, industries, and sectors, primarily carry credit ratings of A and above, and have maturities ranging from   July 2017   to   March 2026  .     

60 

At   June 30, 2017  , U.S. government agency securities primarily include debt directly issued by Federal Home Loan Banks and Federal Farm Credit Banks with fair values of   $2,554.7 million   and   $803.2 million  , respectively.  U.S. government agency securities represent senior, unsecured, non-callable debt that primarily carry ratings of Aaa by Moody's and AA+ by Standard   Poor's with maturities ranging from   September 2017   through   February 2025  .  
    
  At   June 30, 2017  , asset-backed securities include AAA rated senior tranches of securities with predominately prime collateral of fixed-rate credit card, auto loan, equipment lease and rate reduction receivables with fair values of   $2,362.2 million  ,   $1,428.3 million  ,   $431.0 million  , and   $239.8 million  , respectively.  These securities are collateralized by the cash flows of the underlying pools of receivables.  The primary risk associated with these securities is the collection risk of the underlying receivables.  All collateral on such asset-backed securities has performed as expected through   June 30, 2017  . 
    
  At   June 30, 2017  , other securities and their fair value primarily represent: AAA and AA rated supranational bonds of   $129.3 million  , AAA and AA rated sovereign bonds of   $110.7 million  , and AA rated mortgage-backed securities of   $95.9 million   that are guaranteed primarily by Federal National Mortgage Association ("Fannie Mae").  The Company's mortgage-backed securities represent an undivided beneficial ownership interest in a group or pool of one or more residential mortgages.  These securities are collateralized by the cash flows of   15  -year and   30  -year residential mortgages and are guaranteed by Fannie Mae as to the timely payment of principal and interest.   
    
  Classification of corporate investments on the Consolidated Balance Sheets is as follows: 

(a) - Short-term marketable securities are included within Other current assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
  (b) - Long-term marketable securities are included within Other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
    
  Funds held for clients represent assets that, based upon the Company's intent, are restricted for use solely for the purposes of satisfying the obligations to remit funds relating to the Company s payroll and payroll tax filing services, which are classified as client funds obligations on our Consolidated Balance Sheets. 
    
  Funds held for clients have been invested in the following categories: 

Client funds obligations represent the Company's contractual obligations to remit funds to satisfy clients' payroll and tax payment obligations and are recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at the time that the Company impounds funds from clients.  The client funds obligations represent liabilities that will be repaid within   one year   of the balance sheet date.  The Company has reported client funds obligations as a current liability on the Consolidated Balance Sheets totaling   $27,189.4 million   and   $33,331.8 million   as of   June 30, 2017   and   2016  , respectively.  The Company has classified funds held for clients as a current asset since these funds are held solely for the purposes of satisfying the client funds obligations.  The Company has reported the cash flows related to the purchases of corporate and client funds marketable securities and related to the proceeds from the sales and maturities of corporate and client funds marketable securities on a gross basis in the investing section of the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows.  The Company has reported the cash inflows and outflows related to client funds investments with original maturities of   ninety days or less   on a net basis within net increase in restricted cash and cash equivalents and other restricted assets held to satisfy client funds obligations in the investing section of the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows.  The Company has reported the cash flows related to the cash received from and paid on behalf of clients on a net basis within net increase in client funds obligations in the financing section of the Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows. 
  
   61 

Approximately   79%   of the available-for-sale securities held a AAA or AA rating at   June 30, 2017  , as rated by Moody's, Standard   Poor's and, for Canadian securities, DBRS.  All available-for-sale securities were rated as investment grade at   June 30, 2017  . 
    
  Expected maturities of available-for-sale securities at   June 30, 2017   are as follows: 

NOTE   7  .  PROPERTY, PLANT AND EQUIPMENT    
    
  Property, plant and equipment at cost and accumulated depreciation at June 30,   2017   and   2016   are as follows: 

Depreciation of property, plant and equipment was   $147.3 million  ,   $135.6 million  , and   $127.2 million   for fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively. 

NOTE   8  . GOODWILL AND INTANGIBLE ASSETS, NET 
    
  Changes in goodwill for the fiscal years ended   June 30, 2017   and   2016   are as follows:   

(A) The goodwill balance at   June 30, 2015   is net of accumulated impairment losses of   $42.7 million   related to the Employer Services segment. 

62 

Components of intangible assets, net, are as follows: 

Other intangibles consist primarily of purchased rights, purchased content, trademarks and tradenames (acquired directly or through acquisitions).  All of the intangible assets have finite lives and, as such, are subject to amortization.  The weighted average remaining useful life of the intangible assets is   5 years   (  4 years   for software and software licenses,   8 years   for customer contracts and lists, and   6 years   for other intangibles).  Amortization of intangible assets was   $168.8 million  ,   $153.0 million  , and   $150.7 million   for fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  Estimated future amortization expenses of the Company's existing intangible assets are as follows: 

NOTE   9  . SHORT TERM FINANCING 
    
  The Company has a   $3.50 billion  ,   364  -day credit agreement that matures   June 2018   with a   one year   term-out option. The Company also has a   $2.25 billion     five  -year credit facility that matures in   June 2022   that also contains an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by   $500 million  , subject to the availability of additional commitments.  In addition, the Company has a   five  -year   $3.75 billion   credit facility maturing in   June 2021   that contains an accordion feature under which the aggregate commitment can be increased by   $500 million  , subject to the availability of additional commitments.  The interest rate applicable to committed borrowings is tied to LIBOR, the effective federal funds rate, or the prime rate depending on the notification provided by the Company to the syndicated financial institutions prior to borrowing.  The Company is also required to pay facility fees on the credit agreements.  The primary uses of the credit facilities are to provide liquidity to the commercial paper program and funding for general corporate purposes, if necessary.  The Company had   no   borrowings through   June 30, 2017   and   2016   under the credit agreements. 
    
  Our U.S. short-term funding requirements related to client funds are sometimes obtained on an unsecured basis through the issuance of commercial paper, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities.  During the majority of fiscal   2017  , this commercial paper program provided for the issuance of up to   $9.25 billion   in aggregate maturity value; in June   2017  , the Company increased its U.S. short-term commercial paper program to provide for the issuance of up to   $9.5 billion   in aggregate maturity value.  The Company s commercial paper program is rated A-1+ by Standard   Poor s and Prime-1 by Moody s.  These ratings denote the highest quality commercial paper securities.  Maturities of commercial paper can range from   overnight to up to 364 days  .  At   June 30, 2017   and   2016  , the Company had   no   commercial paper outstanding. In fiscal   2017   and   2016  , the Company's average daily borrowings were   $3.1 billion   and   $2.7 billion  , respectively, at a weighted average interest rate of   0.6%   and   0.3%  , respectively.  The weighted average maturity of the Company s commercial paper in fiscal   2017   and   2016   was approximately   two days  .     

63 

The Company s U.S. and Canadian short-term funding requirements related to client funds obligations are sometimes obtained on a secured basis through the use of reverse repurchase agreements, which are collateralized principally by government and government agency securities, rather than liquidating previously-collected client funds that have already been invested in available-for-sale securities.  These agreements generally have terms ranging from   overnight to up to five business days  .  At   June 30, 2017   and   2016  , there were   no   outstanding obligations related to the reverse repurchase agreements.  In fiscal   2017   and   2016  , the Company had average outstanding balances under reverse repurchase agreements of   $274.8 million   and   $341.0 million  , respectively, at weighted average interest rates of   0.6%   and   0.4%  , respectively.  

NOTE   10  . LONG TERM DEBT 
    
  In   September 2015  , the Company issued fixed-rate notes with   5  -year and   10  -year maturities for an aggregate principal amount of   $2.0 billion  .  The Notes are senior unsecured obligations, and interest is payable in arrears, semi-annually. 
    
  The principal amounts and associated effective interest rates of the Notes and other debt as of   June 30, 2017   and   2016   are as follows: 

The effective interest rates for the Notes include the interest on the Notes and amortization of the discount and debt issuance costs.  
  As of   June 30, 2017  , the fair value of the Notes, based on level 2 inputs, was   $2,051.6 million  .  For a description of the fair value hierarchy and the Company's fair value methodologies, including the use of an independent third-party pricing service, see Note   1   "Summary of Significant Accounting Policies."  

NOTE   11  . EMPLOYEE BENEFIT PLANS 
    
  A.  Stock-based Compensation Plans.    Stock-based compensation consists of the following: 

Stock Options.    Stock options are granted to employees at exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the Company's common stock on the dates of grant.  Stock options are issued under a graded vesting schedule and have a term of   10 years  .  Options granted after July 1, 2008 generally vest ratably over   four years  .  Compensation expense is measured based on the fair value of the stock option on the grant date and recognized over the requisite service period for each separately vesting portion of the stock option award.  Stock options are forfeited if the employee ceases to be employed by the Company prior to vesting.  

Restricted Stock. 
                
    Time-Based Restricted Stock and Time-Based Restricted Stock Units.    Time-based restricted stock and time-based restricted stock units granted are generally subject to a vesting period of   two years  .  Awards are forfeited if the employee ceases to be employed by the Company prior to vesting.  
       
  Time-based restricted stock cannot be transferred during the vesting period.  Compensation expense relating to the issuance of time-based restricted stock is measured based on the fair value of the award on the grant date and recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Dividends are paid on shares awarded under the time-based restricted stock program.   
    
  Time-based restricted stock units are settled in cash and cannot be transferred during the vesting period.  Compensation expense relating to the issuance of time-based restricted stock units is recorded over the  
  
   64 

vesting period and is initially based on the fair value of the award on the grant date and is subsequently remeasured at each reporting date during the vesting period based on the change in the ADP stock price.  No dividend equivalents are paid on units awarded under the time-based restricted stock unit program.  

Performance-Based Restricted Stock and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units.    Performance-based restricted stock and performance-based restricted stock units generally vest over a   one   to   three   year performance period and a subsequent service period of up to   26 months  .  Under these programs, the Company communicates "target awards" at the beginning of the performance period with possible payouts at the end of the performance period ranging from   0%   to   150%   of the "target awards."  Awards are generally forfeited if the employee ceases to be employed by the Company prior to vesting.   
       
  Performance-based restricted stock cannot be transferred during the vesting period.  Compensation expense relating to the issuance of performance-based restricted stock is recognized over the vesting period based on the fair value of the award on the grant date with subsequent adjustments to the number of shares awarded during the performance period based on probable and actual performance against targets.  After the performance period, if the performance targets are achieved, employees are eligible to receive dividends during the remaining vesting period on shares awarded under the performance-based restricted stock program. 
  Performance-based restricted stock units cannot be transferred and are settled in either cash or stock, depending on the employee's home country.  Compensation expense relating to the issuance of performance-based restricted stock units settled in cash is recognized over the vesting period initially based on the fair value of the award on the grant date with subsequent adjustments to the number of units awarded during the performance period based on probable and actual performance against targets.  In addition, compensation expense is remeasured at each reporting period during the vesting period based on the change in the ADP stock price.  Compensation expense relating to the issuance of performance-based restricted stock units settled in stock is recorded over the vesting period based on the fair value of the award on the grant date with subsequent adjustments to the number of units awarded based on the probable and actual performance against targets.  Dividend equivalents are paid on awards under the performance-based restricted stock unit program.   
             
    Employee Stock Purchase Plan.    The Company offers an employee stock purchase plan that allows eligible employees to purchase shares of common stock at a price equal to   95%   of the market value for the Company's common stock on the last day of the offering period.  This plan has been deemed non-compensatory and, therefore, no compensation expense has been recorded. 
       
  The Company currently utilizes treasury stock to satisfy stock option exercises, issuances under the Company's employee stock purchase plan, and restricted stock awards.  From time to time, the Company may repurchase shares of its common stock under its authorized share repurchase programs.  The Company repurchased   13.5 million   shares in fiscal   2017   as compared to   13.8 million   shares repurchased in fiscal   2016  .  The Company considers several factors in determining when to execute share repurchases, including, among other things, actual and potential acquisition activity, cash balances and cash flows, issuances due to employee benefit plan activity, and market conditions.  Cash payments related to the settlement of vested time-based restricted stock units and performance-based restricted stock units were approximately   $24.5 million  ,   $25.2 million  , and   $25.2 million   during fiscal years   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  The following table represents stock-based compensation expense and related income tax benefits in each of fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively: 

Stock-based compensation expense attributable to employees of the discontinued operations are included in discontinued operations on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings and therefore not presented in the table above.  For fiscal   2015   such stock-based compensation expense was   $5.5 million  . 
  
   65 

As a result of the spin-off of CDK, the number of vested and unvested ADP stock options, their strike price, and the number of unvested performance-based and time-based restricted shares and units were adjusted to preserve the intrinsic value of the awards immediately prior to the spin-off using an adjustment ratio based on the market close price of ADP stock prior to the spin-off and the market open price of ADP stock subsequent to the spin-off.  Since these adjustments were considered to be a modification of the awards in accordance to ASC 718, "Stock Compensation," the Company compared the fair value of the awards immediately prior to the spin-off to the fair value immediately after the spin-off to measure potential incremental stock-based compensation expense, if any.  The adjustments did not result in an increase in the fair value of the awards and, accordingly, the Company did not record incremental stock-based compensation expense.  Unvested ADP stock options, unvested restricted stock, and unvested restricted stock units held by CDK employees were replaced by CDK awards immediately following the spin-off.  The stock-based compensation expense associated with the original grant of ADP awards to remaining ADP employees will continue to be recognized within earnings from continuing operations in the Company's Statements of Consolidated Earnings.  
    
  As of   June 30, 2017  , the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost related to non-vested stock options, restricted stock units, and restricted stock awards amounted to   $12.6 million  ,   $27.9 million  , and   $60.7 million  , respectively, which will be amortized over the weighted-average remaining requisite service periods of   2.3 years  ,   1.3 years  , and   1.1 years  , respectively. 
    
  In fiscal   2017  , the following activity occurred under the Company s existing plans. 
    
  Stock Options: 

Time-Based Restricted Stock and Time-Based Restricted Stock Units: 

66 

Performance-Based Restricted Stock and Performance-Based Restricted Stock Units: 

The aggregate intrinsic value of outstanding stock options and exercisable stock options as of   June 30, 2017   was   $112.6 million   and   $61.2 million  , respectively, which have a remaining life of   7.2   years and   5.4   years, respectively.  The aggregate intrinsic value for stock options exercised in fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015   was   $70.9 million  ,   $85.4 million  , and   $125.3 million  , respectively.   
    
  The fair value for stock options granted was estimated at the date of grant using the following assumptions: 

The weighted average fair values of shares granted were as follows: 

(A) The weighted average fair values of grants before September 30, 2014 were adjusted to reflect the impact of the spin-off of CDK. 
    
  B.  Pension Plans 
    
  The Company has a defined benefit cash balance pension plan under which employees are credited with a percentage of base pay plus interest.  Effective January 1, 2015, associates hired on or after this date are not eligible to participate in this pension plan.  In addition, associates rehired on or after January 1, 2015 will no longer be eligible to earn additional contributions but will continue to earn interest on any balance that remains in the pension plan.   The plan interest credit rate varies from year-to-year based on the   ten-year U.S. Treasury rate  .  Employees are fully vested upon completion of   three years   of service. The Company's policy is to make contributions within the range determined by generally accepted actuarial principles.    
    
  The Company also has various retirement plans for its non-U.S. employees and maintains a Supplemental Officers Retirement Plan ( SORP ).  The SORP is a defined benefit plan pursuant to which the Company pays supplemental pension benefits to certain corporate officers upon retirement based upon the officers' years of service and compensation. The SORP, which is currently closed to new entrants, will be frozen effective July 1, 2019.  Benefits under the plan will continue to accrue through June 30, 2019, and as of July 1, 2019 and onward, participants will retain their accrued benefits with no future accruals due to pay and/or service.  
    
  A   June 30   measurement date was used in determining the Company's benefit obligations and fair value of plan assets. 
  The Company is required to (a) recognize in its Consolidated Balance Sheets an asset for a plan's net overfunded status or a liability for a plan's net underfunded status, (b) measure a plan's assets and its obligations that determine its funded status as of the end of the employer's fiscal year, and (c) recognize changes in the funded status of a defined benefit plan in the year in which the changes occur in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss).   
  
   67 

The Company's pension plans' funded status as of   June 30, 2017   and   2016   is as follows: 

The amounts recognized on the Consolidated Balance Sheets as of   June 30, 2017   and   2016   consisted of: 

The accumulated benefit obligation for all defined benefit pension plans was   $1,852.5 million   and   $1,825.1 million     at   June 30, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
    
  The Company's pension plans with accumulated benefit obligations in excess of plan assets as of   June 30, 2017   and   2016   had the following projected benefit obligation, accumulated benefit obligation, and fair value of plan assets: 

68 

The components of net pension expense were as follows: 

Net pension expense for fiscal   2015   includes   $4.3 million   reported within earnings from discontinued operations on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings.  Included within pension expense related to discontinued operations for fiscal   2015   were total one-time charges of   $3.2 million   for curtailment charges and special termination benefits directly attributable to the spin-off of CDK. 
    
  The net actuarial loss and prior service credit for the defined benefit pension plans that are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) that have not yet been recognized as components of net periodic benefit cost are   $330.5 million   and   $21.3 million  , respectively, at   June 30, 2017  .  There is no remaining transition obligation for the defined benefit pension plans included in accumulated other comprehensive income.  The estimated net actuarial loss and prior service credit for the defined benefit pension plans that will be amortized from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into net periodic pension cost in fiscal 2018 are   $10.5 million   and   $2.2 million  , respectively. 
    
  Assumptions used to determine the actuarial present value of benefit obligations were:        

Assumptions used to determine the net pension expense generally were: 

The discount rate is based upon published rates for high-quality fixed-income investments that produce cash flows that approximate the timing and amount of expected future benefit payments. 
    
  The expected long-term rate of return on assets is determined based on historical and expected future rates of return on plan assets considering the target asset mix and the long-term investment strategy.   

69 

Plan Assets 
    
  The Company's pension plans' asset allocations at   June 30, 2017   and   2016   by asset category were as follows: 

The Company's pension plans' asset investment strategy is designed to ensure prudent management of assets, consistent with long-term return objectives and the prompt fulfillment of all pension plan obligations.  The investment strategy and asset mix were developed in coordination with an asset liability study conducted by external consultants to maximize the funded ratio with the least amount of volatility. 
    
  The pension plans' assets are currently invested in various asset classes with differing expected rates of return, correlations, and volatilities, including large capitalization and small capitalization U.S. equities, international equities, U.S. fixed income securities, and cash. 
    
  The target asset allocation ranges for the U.S. plan are generally as follows: 

The pension plans' fixed income portfolio is designed to match the duration and liquidity characteristics of the pension plans' liabilities.  In addition, the pension plans invest only in investment-grade debt securities to ensure preservation of capital.  The pension plans' equity portfolios are subject to diversification guidelines to reduce the impact of losses in single investments.  Investment managers are prohibited from buying or selling commodities and from the short selling of securities. 
    
  None of the pension plans' assets are directly invested in the Company's stock, although the pension plans may hold a minimal amount of Company stock to the extent of the Company's participation in equity indices. 
    
  The pension plans' investments included in Level 1 are valued using closing prices for identical instruments that are traded on active exchanges.  The pension plans' investments included in Level 2 are valued utilizing inputs obtained from an independent pricing service, which are reviewed by the Company for reasonableness.  To determine the fair value of our Level 2 plan assets, a variety of inputs are utilized, including benchmark yields, reported trades, non-binding broker/dealer quotes, issuer spreads, two-sided markets, benchmark securities, bids, offers, reference data, new issue data, and monthly payment information.  The pension plans have no Level 3 investments at   June 30, 2017  .   
    
  The following table presents the investments of the pension plans measured at fair value at   June 30, 2017  :   

70 

In addition to the investments in the above table, the pension plans also held cash and cash equivalents of   $15.2 million   as of   June 30, 2017  , which have been classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.   
    
  The following table presents the investments of the pension plans measured at fair value at   June 30, 2016  :   

In addition to the investments in the above table, the pension plans also held cash and cash equivalents of   $60.3 million   as of   June 30, 2016  , which have been classified as Level 1 in the fair value hierarchy.    
    
  Contributions 
       
  During fiscal   2017  , the Company contributed   $11.9 million   to the pension plans.  The Company expects to contribute   $9.5 million   to the pension plans during fiscal   2018  . 
    
  Estimated Future Benefit Payments 
    
  The benefits expected to be paid in each year from fiscal   2018   to the year ended June 30, 2022 are   $85.9 million  ,   $89.8 million  ,   $97.1 million  ,   $107.7 million  , and   $119.2 million  , respectively.  The aggregate benefits expected to be paid in the five fiscal years from the year ended June 30, 2023 to the year ended June 30, 2027 are   $718.3 million  .  The expected benefits to be paid are based on the same assumptions used to measure the Company's pension plans' benefit obligations at   June 30, 2017   and includes estimated future employee service. 
    
  C. Retirement and Savings Plan.    The Company has a 401(k) retirement and savings plan, which allows eligible employees to contribute up to   50%   of their compensation annually and allows highly compensated employees to contribute up to   12%   of their compensation annually.  The Company matches a portion of employee contributions, which amounted to approximately   $87.9 million  ,   $81.9 million  , and   $69.7 million   for the calendar years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. 

NOTE   12  . INCOME TAXES 
    
  Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes shown below are based on the geographic location to which such earnings are attributable. 

71 

The provision (benefit) for income taxes consists of the following components: 

A reconciliation between the Company's effective tax rate and the U.S. federal statutory rate is as follows: 

72 

The significant components of deferred income tax assets and liabilities and their balance sheet classifications are as follows: 

There are   $93.4 million   and   $100.3 million   of long-term deferred tax assets included in other assets on the Consolidated Balance Sheets at   June 30, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
    
  Income taxes have not been provided on undistributed earnings of certain foreign subsidiaries in an aggregate amount of approximately   $469.5 million   as of   June 30, 2017  , as the Company considers such earnings to be permanently reinvested outside of the United States.  The additional U.S. income tax that would arise on repatriation of the remaining undistributed earnings could be offset, in part, by foreign tax credits on such repatriation.  However, it is impracticable to estimate the amount of net income tax that might be payable. 
    
  The Company has estimated foreign net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately   $71.7 million   as of   June 30, 2017  , of which   $17.3 million   expire through   2025   and   $54.4 million   have an indefinite utilization period.  As of   June 30, 2017  , the Company has approximately   $35.4 million   of federal net operating loss carry-forwards from acquired companies.  The net operating losses have an annual utilization limitation pursuant to section 382 of the Internal Revenue Code and expire through   2031  .   
    
  The Company has state net operating loss carry-forwards of approximately   $271.4 million   as of   June 30, 2017  , which expire through   2036  . 
    
  The Company has recorded valuation allowances of   $9.4 million   and   $15.4 million   at   June 30, 2017   and   2016  , respectively, to reflect the estimated amount of domestic and foreign deferred tax assets that may not be realized.   
    
  Income tax payments were approximately   $817.1 million  ,   $651.6 million  , and   $773.3 million   for fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively. 
    
  As of June 30,   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015   the Company's liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, which include interest and penalties, were   $74.6 million  ,   $27.4 million  , and   $27.1 million   respectively.  The amount that, if recognized, would impact the effective tax rate is   $61.0 million  ,   $18.7 million  , and   $16.9 million  , respectively.  The remainder, if recognized, would principally impact deferred taxes.   
  
   73 

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amounts of unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

Interest expense and penalties associated with uncertain tax positions have been recorded in the provision for income taxes on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings.  During the fiscal years   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , the Company recorded interest expense (benefit) of   $3.0 million  ,   $1.1 million  , and   $(2.7) million  , respectively.  Penalties incurred during fiscal years   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015   were   no  t significant.   
    
  At   June 30, 2017  , the Company had accrued interest of   $6.9 million   recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, of which   $0.1 million   was recorded within income taxes payable, and the remainder was recorded within other liabilities.  At   June 30, 2016  , the Company had accrued interest of   $4.0 million   recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets, of which   $0.1 million   was recorded within income taxes payable, and the remainder was recorded within other liabilities.  At   June 30, 2017  , the Company had accrued penalties of   $0.2 million   recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets within other liabilities.  At   June 30, 2016  , the Company had accrued penalties of   $0.2 million   recorded on the Consolidated Balance Sheets within other liabilities.   
    
  The Company is routinely examined by the IRS and tax authorities in foreign countries in which it conducts business, as well as tax authorities in states in which it has significant business operations.  The tax years currently under examination vary by jurisdiction.  Examinations in progress in which the Company has significant business operations are as follows: 

The Company regularly considers the likelihood of assessments resulting from examinations in each of the jurisdictions.  The resolution of tax matters is not expected to have a material effect on the consolidated financial condition of the Company, although a resolution could have a material impact on the Company's Statements of Consolidated Earnings for a particular future period and on the Company's effective tax rate. 
    
  If certain pending tax matters settle within the next twelve months, the total amount of unrecognized tax benefits may increase or decrease for all open tax years and jurisdictions.  Based on current estimates, settlements related to various jurisdictions and tax periods could increase earnings up to   $35 million   in the next twelve months.  Audit outcomes and the timing of audit settlements are subject to significant uncertainty.  We continually assess the likelihood and amount of potential adjustments and adjust the income tax provision, the current tax liability and deferred taxes in the period in which the facts that give rise to a revision become known. 
    
  In fiscal   2017  , the IRS completed its review of the examination of the Company's tax return for the year ended June  
  
   74 

30,   2015  , which did not have a material impact to the Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company. 

NOTE   13  . COMMITMENTS AND CONTINGENCIES 
    
  The Company has obligations under various facilities and equipment leases. Minimum commitments under these obligations with a future life of greater than one year at   June 30, 2017   are as follows: 

In addition to fixed rentals, certain leases require payment of maintenance and real estate taxes and contain escalation provisions based on future adjustments in price indices. 
    
  As of   June 30, 2017  , the Company has purchase commitments of appro  ximately   $644.9 million  , including a reinsurance premium with Chubb for the fiscal   2018   policy year, as well as obligations related to software license agreements and purchase and maintenance agreements on our software, equipment, and other assets, of which   $368.7 million   relates to fiscal   2018  ,   $116.4 million   relates to the fiscal year ending June 30,   2019  , and the remaining   $159.8 million   relates to fiscal years ending June 30,   2020   through fiscal   2022  . 
    
  In July 2016, Uniloc USA, Inc. and Uniloc Luxembourg, S.A. ( Uniloc ) filed a lawsuit against the Company in the United States District Court for the Eastern District of Texas alleging that Company products and services infringe four patents.  Uniloc alleges infringement of its patents concerning centralized management of application programs on a network, distribution of application programs to a target station on a network, management of configurable application programs on a network, and license use management on a network.  The complaint seeks unspecified monetary damages, costs, and injunctive relief.  The Company is unable to estimate any reasonably possible loss, or range of loss, with respect to this matter.  The Company continues to vigorously defend against this lawsuit.  
    
  The Company is subject to various claims and litigation in the normal course of business.  When a loss is considered probable and reasonably estimable, the Company records a liability in the amount of its best estimate for the ultimate loss.  Management currently believes that the resolution of these claims and litigation against us, individually or in the aggregate, will not have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, financial condition or cash flows.  These matters are subject to inherent uncertainties and management's view of these matters may change in the future.   
    
  It is not the Company s business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements.  In the normal course of business, the Company may enter into contracts in which it makes representations and warranties that relate to the performance of the Company s services and products.  The Company does not expect any material losses related to such representations and warranties. 

NOTE   14  .  RECLASSIFICATION OUT OF ACCUMULATED OTHER COMPREHENSIVE INCOME  
    
  Comprehensive income is a measure of income that includes both net earnings and other comprehensive income (loss).  Other comprehensive income (loss) results from items deferred on the Consolidated Balance Sheets in stockholders' equity.  Other comprehensive (loss) income was   $(164.1) million  ,   $45.5 million  , and   $(350.6) million   in fiscal   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively.  Changes in Accumulated Other Comprehensive Income ("AOCI") by component are as follows: 

75 

(A) Reclassification adjustments out of AOCI are included within net earnings from discontinued operations on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings. 
    
  (B) Reclassification adjustments out of AOCI are included within Other income, net, on the Statements of Consolidated Earnings. 
    
  (C) Reclassification adjustments out of AOCI are included in net pension expense (see Note   11  ). 
    
  (D) Reclassification adjustment out of AOCI is related to the CDK spin-off and included in retained earnings on the Consolidated Balance Sheets.  

76 

NOTE   15  . FINANCIAL DATA BY SEGMENT AND GEOGRAPHIC AREA 
    
  Based upon similar economic and operational characteristics, the Company s strategic business units have been aggregated into the following   two   reportable segments: Employer Services and PEO Services.  The primary components of  Other  are non-recurring gains and losses, miscellaneous processing services, the elimination of intercompany transactions, interest expense, the results of operations of ADP Indemnity (a wholly-owned captive insurance company that provides workers  compensation and employee s liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services  worksite employees), certain charges and expenses that have not been allocated to the reportable segments, and the historical results of the AMD business.  Beginning in the first quarter of fiscal 2017, the Company's chief operating decision maker began reviewing the Company's results with stock-based compensation included in the Company's operating segments.  This change, as well as changes to the allocation methodology for certain allocations, has been adjusted in both the current period and the prior period in the table below, and did not materially affect reportable segment results.  The Company also adjusted the segment results to reflect the historical results of AMD in Other, which also did not materially affect reportable segment results. 
    
  Certain revenues and expenses are charged to the reportable segments at a standard rate for management reasons.  Other costs are recorded based on management responsibility.  There is a reconciling item for the difference between actual interest income earned on invested funds held for clients and interest credited to Employer Services and PEO Services at a standard rate of   4.5%  .  This allocation is made for management reasons so that the reportable segments' results are presented on a consistent basis without the impact of fluctuations in interest rates.  This reconciling adjustment to the reportable segments' revenues and earnings from continuing operations before income taxes is eliminated in consolidation.   

77 

NOTE   16  .  QUARTERLY FINANCIAL RESULTS (UNAUDITED) 
    
  Summarized quarterly results of our operations for the fiscal years ended June 30,   2017   and June 30,   2016   are as follows:     

(A) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes; net earnings from continuing operations; and basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations include the charge for the Service Alignment Initiative.  This decreased earnings from continuing operations before income taxes by   $39.9 million  , net earnings from continuing operations by   $24.8 million   and  
  
   78 

basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by   $0.05  .           
  (B) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes; net earnings from continuing operations; and basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations include the gain on the sale of the COBRA and CHSA businesses.  This increased earnings from continuing operations before income taxes by   $205.4 million  , net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings by   $121.4 million  , and basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by   $0.27  .           
  (C) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes; net earnings from continuing operations; and basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations include charges for the Service Alignment Initiative. This decreased earnings from continuing operations before income taxes by   $0.6 million  , and net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings by   $0.4 million  , and had no impact on basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations.  
    
  (D) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes; net earnings from continuing operations; and basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations include charges for the Workforce Optimization Effort and Service Alignment Initiative. The combined impact decreased earnings from continuing operations before income taxes by   $43.5 million   and, net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings by   $27.1 million   and basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by   $0.06  . 
    
  (E) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes; net earnings from continuing operations; net earnings; and basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations include the gain on the sale of AMD.  This increased earnings from continuing operations before income taxes by   $29.1 million  , net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings by   $21.8 million  , and basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by   $0.05    
    
  (F) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes; net earnings from continuing operations; net earnings; and basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations include the gain on sale of a building.  This increased earnings from continuing operations before income taxes by   $13.9 million   net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings by   $8.6 million   and basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by   $0.02  .           
  (G) Earnings from continuing operations before income taxes; net earnings from continuing operations; net earnings; and basic and diluted EPS from continuing operations include the charge for the Workforce Optimization Effort.  This decreased earnings from continuing operations before income taxes by   $48.2 million   net earnings from continuing operations and net earnings by   $31.8 million   and basic and diluted earnings per share from continuing operations by   $0.07  .           
   
  NOTE   17  . SUBSEQUENT EVENTS 
    
  The Company's subsidiary captive insurance company, ADP Indemnity, paid a premium of   $235.0 million   in July 2017 to enter into a reinsurance arrangement with Chubb to cover substantially all losses for the fiscal 2018 policy year on terms substantially similar to the fiscal 2017 reinsurance policy to cover losses up to   $1 million   per occurrence related to the workers' compensation and employer's liability deductible reimbursement insurance protection for PEO Services worksite employees. 

79 

Item 9. Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
  None.  
   
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures  
  Attached as Exhibits 31.1 and 31.2 to this Annual Report on Form 10-K are certifications of ADP's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, which are required by Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). This  Controls and Procedures  section should be read in conjunction with the report of Deloitte   Touche LLP that appears in this Annual Report on Form 10-K and is hereby incorporated herein by reference.  
  Management's Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
  The Company carried out an evaluation (the  evaluation ), under the supervision and with the participation of the Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, of the effectiveness of the Company's disclosure controls and procedures, as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by the Company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, or persons performing similar functions, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on the evaluation, the Company's Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer have concluded that the Company's disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of   June 30, 2017   in ensuring that (i) information required to be disclosed by the Company in reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the Company's management, including its Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure and (ii) such information is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in the Securities and Exchange Commission's rules and forms.  
  Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
  It is the responsibility of Automatic Data Processing, Inc.'s ( ADP ) management to establish and maintain effective internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Exchange Act). Internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance to ADP's management and board of directors regarding the preparation of reliable financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
  ADP's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of ADP; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of ADP are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of ADP; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding the prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of ADP's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements of ADP. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Therefore, even those systems determined to be effective can provide only reasonable assurance with respect to financial statement preparation and presentation.  
  Management has performed an assessment of the effectiveness of ADP s internal control over financial reporting as of   June 30, 2017   based upon criteria set forth in Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.  Based on this assessment, management determined that ADP s internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   June 30, 2017  .  
  
   80 

Deloitte   Touche LLP, the independent registered public accounting firm that audited and reported on the consolidated financial statements of ADP included in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, has issued an attestation report on the operating effectiveness of ADP's internal control over financial reporting. The Deloitte   Touche LLP attestation report is set forth below.  
               /s/ Carlos A. Rodriguez 
      Carlos A. Rodriguez 
      President and Chief Executive Officer 
        
      /s/ Jan Siegmund 
      Jan Siegmund 
      Chief Financial Officer 

Roseland, New Jersey 
  August 4, 2017    

81 

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
  There were no changes in ADP's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended   June 30, 2017   that have materially affected, or are reasonably likely to materially affect, ADP's internal control over financial reporting. 

82 

REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  Automatic Data Processing, Inc. 
  Roseland, New Jersey 
    
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and subsidiaries (the "Company") as of June 30, 2017, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company's management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
    
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company's principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company's board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of June 30, 2017, based on the criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
    
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule as of and for the year ended June 30, 2017 of the Company and our report dated   August 4, 2017  , expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule. 
    
               /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
      Parsippany, New Jersey 

August 4, 2017    

83 

Item 9B. Other Information      
  None.  

84 

Part III 
   
  Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance   
  The executive officers of the Company, their ages, positions, and the period during which they have been employed by ADP are as follows: 

Brock Albinson   joined ADP in 2007. Prior to his appointment as Corporate Controller and Principal Accounting Officer in March 2015, he served as Assistant Corporate Controller from December 2011 to February 2015, as Vice President, Corporate Finance from January 2011 to December 2011, and as Vice President, Financial Policy from March 2007 to January 2011. 
  John Ayala   joined ADP in 2002.  Prior to his appointment as President, Major Account Services and ADP Canada in January 2017, he served as President, Small Business Services, Retirement Services and Insurance Services from July 2014 to December 2016, as Vice President, Client Experience and Continuous Improvement from November 2012 to June 2014, as Senior Vice President, Services and Operations - Small Business Services from February 2012 to October 2012, as President, TotalSource from July 2011 to January 2012, and as Senior Vice President, Service and Operations, TotalSource from June 2008 to June 2011. 
  Maria Black   joined ADP in 1996.  Prior to her appointment as President, Small Business Solutions and Human Resources Outsourcing in January 2017, she served as President, ADP TotalSource from July 2014 to December 2016, as General Manager, ADP United Kingdom from April 2013 to June 2014, and as General Manager, Employer Services - TotalSource Western Central Region from January 2008 to March 2013. 
  Michael A. Bonarti   joined ADP in 1997.  He has served as Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary since July 2010. 
  Deborah L. Dyson   joined ADP in 1988.  Prior to her appointment as Vice President, Client Experience and Continuous Improvement in July 2014, she served as Division Vice President / General Manager, Employer Services - Major Account Services South Service Center from July 2012 to June 2014, and as Division Vice President / General Manager, Employer Services - Major Account Services Northwest Service Center from July 2006 to June 2012. 
  Michael C. Eberhard   joined ADP in 1998.  He has served as Vice President and Treasurer since November 2009. 
  
   85 

Edward B. Flynn, III   joined ADP in 1988.  Prior to his appointment as President, Global Enterprise Solutions in January 2017, he served as Executive Vice President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing from November 2012 to December 2016, and as Vice President, Employer Services - Sales from April 2009 to October 2012. 
  Dermot J. O Brien   joined ADP in 2012 as Chief Human Resources Officer.  Prior to joining ADP, he was Executive Vice President of Human Resources at TIAA from 2003 to 2012. 
  Thomas Perrotti   joined ADP in 1993. Prior to his appointment as President, Worldwide Sales and Marketing in January 2017, he served as President, Major Account Services and ADP Canada from July 2015 to December 2016, as Corporate Vice President and Senior Vice President, Service and Operations, Major Account Services from July 2014 to June 2015, as Senior Vice President, Service   Operations, Small Business Services from April 2013 to June 2014, as Senior Vice President, Sales, Small Business Services from April 2011 to March 2013, and as Division Vice President, Global Sales Operations, Employer Services from November 2009 to March 2011. 
  Douglas Politi   joined ADP in 1992.  Prior to his appointment as President, Added Value Services in February 2013, he served as Senior Vice President, CFO Suite (AVS) from October 2011 to January 2013, and as Senior Vice President, Retirement Services from September 2006 to September 2011. 
  Carlos A. Rodriguez   joined ADP in 1999.  Prior to his appointment in November 2011 to President and Chief Executive Officer, he served as President and Chief Operating Officer from May 2011 to November 2011, and as President, Employer Services International - National Account Services, ADP Canada, and GlobalView and Employer Services International, from March 2010 to May 2011. 
  Stuart Sackman   joined ADP in 1992.  Prior to his appointment as Vice President, Global Product and Technology in March 2015, he served as Corporate Vice President and General Manager of Multinational Corporations Services from June 2012 to February 2015, and as Division Vice President and General Manager of the National Account Services  East National Service Center from February 2008 to May 2012. 
  Jan Siegmund   joined ADP in 1999.  Prior to his appointment as Chief Financial Officer in November 2012, he served as President, Added Value Services and Chief Strategy Officer from April 2009 to October 2012. 
  Donald Weinstein   joined ADP in 2006.  Prior to his appointment as Chief Strategy Officer in December 2015, he served as Senior Vice President, Product Management from October 2010 to November 2015, and as Division Vice President, Strategy   Marketing from September 2007 to September 2010. 
  Directors 
  See  Election of Directors  in the Proxy Statement for the Company s 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance 
  See  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in the Proxy Statement for the Company s 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Code of Ethics 
  ADP has adopted a code of ethics that applies to its principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer and persons performing similar functions.  The code of ethics may be viewed online on ADP s website at www.adp.com under  Investor Relations  in the  Corporate Governance  section.  Any amendment to or waivers from the code of ethics will be disclosed on our website within four business days following the date of the amendment or waiver. 
  Audit Committee; Audit Committee Financial Expert 
  See  Corporate Governance - Committees of the Board of Directors  and  Audit Committee Report  in the Proxy Statement for the Company s 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 

86 

Material Changes in Nominating Procedures 
  See "Stockholder Proposals - Proxy Access" in the Proxy Statement for the Company's 2017 Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference. 
   
  Item 11. Executive Compensation  
  See  Corporate Governance,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation of Executive Officers  and  Compensation of Non-Employee Directors  in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2017   Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  
   
  Item 12. Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
  See  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Managers  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2017   Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  
   
  Item 13. Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
  See  Election of Directors  and  Corporate Governance  in the Proxy Statement for the Company s   2017   Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  
   
  Item 14. Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
  See  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm's Fees  in the Proxy Statement for the Company's   2017   Annual Meeting of Stockholders, which information is incorporated herein by reference.  
   
  Part IV 
   
  Item 15. Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
  (a) Financial Statements and Financial Statement Schedules  
  1.   Financial Statements  
  The following report and Consolidated Financial Statements of the Company are contained in Part II, Item 8 hereof:  
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
  Statements of Consolidated Earnings - years ended June 30,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015    
  Statements of Consolidated Comprehensive Income - years ended June 30,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets - June 30,   2017   and   2016    
  Statements of Consolidated Stockholders' Equity - years ended June 30,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015 
  Statements of Consolidated Cash Flows - years ended June 30,   2017  ,   2016   and   2015 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
  2.   Financial Statement Schedules  

Page in Form 10-K 
        
    Schedule II - Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
      
    91 

All other Schedules have been omitted because they are inapplicable, are not required or the information is included elsewhere in the financial statements or notes thereto.  
  (b) Exhibits  
  The following exhibits are filed with this Annual Report on Form 10-K or incorporated herein by reference to the document set forth next to the exhibit in the list below:  

87 

4.1 
    Form of Indenture between the Company and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Registration Statement on Form S-3 (No. 333-206631), filed on August 28, 2015 
      4.2 
    Form of First Supplemental Indenture between Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as trustee - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 15, 2015 
      4.3 
    Form of 2.250% Senior Note due 2020 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 15, 2015 
      4.4 
    Form of 3.375% Senior Note due 2025 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.3 to the Company's Current Report on Form 8-K dated September 15, 2015 
      10.1 
    364-Day Credit Agreement, dated as of June 14, 2017, among Automatic Data Processing, Inc., the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., BNP Paribas, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Citibank, N.A. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Syndication Agents, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Barclays Bank PLC, as Documentation Agents - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 14, 2017 
      10.2 
    Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of June 14, 2017, among Automatic Data Processing, Inc., the Lenders party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., BNP Paribas, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Citibank, N.A. and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Syndication Agents, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Barclays Bank PLC, as Documentation Agents - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 14, 2017 
      10.3 
    Five-Year Credit Agreement, dated as of June 15, 2016, among Automatic Data Processing, Inc., the Lenders Party thereto, JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as Administrative Agent, Bank of America, N.A., BNP Paribas, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Citibank, N.A.and The Bank of Tokyo-Mitsubishi UFJ, Ltd., as Syndication Agents, and Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. and Barclays Bank PLC, as Documentation Agents - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.12 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated June 15, 2016 
      10.4 
    Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated as of March 20, 2007, between Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and Broadridge Financial Solutions, LLC - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated March 21, 2007 
      10.5 
    Separation and Distribution Agreement, dated September 29, 2014, by and between Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and CDK Global Holdings, LLC - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated October 1, 2014 
      10.6 
    Separation Agreement and Release, dated April 21, 2014, by and between Regina R. Lee and Automatic Data Processing, Inc. - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K dated April 21, 2014 
      10.7 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. 2003 Director Stock Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.4 to Registration Statement No.  333-147377 on Form S-8 filed with the Commission on November 14, 2007 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
       10.8  
    Amended and Restated Supplemental Officers Retirement Plan (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.9 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Deferred Compensation Plan, as Amended and Restated Effective September 15, 2016 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.10 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2016 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.10 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Change in Control Severance Plan for Corporate Officers, as amended - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.11 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Amended and Restated Employees  Savings-Stock Purchase Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.11 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.12 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Executive Retirement Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2015 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.13 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Retirement and Savings Restoration Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2015 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.14 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Corporate Officer Severance Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2015 (Management Compensatory Plan) 

88 

10.15 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. 2000 Stock Option Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.8 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2009 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.16 
    2000 Stock Option Grant Agreement (Form for Employees) for grants prior to August 14, 2008 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.17 
    2000 Stock Option Grant Agreement (Form for Non-Employee Directors) for grants prior to August 14, 2008 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended September 30, 2004 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.18 
    Automatic Data Processing, Inc. 2008 Omnibus Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Appendix A to the Company s Proxy Statement for its 2008 Annual Meeting of Stockholders filed with the Commission on September 26, 2008 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.19 
    French Sub Plan under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan effective as of January 26, 2012 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2012 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.20 
    Amended French Sub Plan under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan effective as of April 6, 2016 (Management Compensatory Plan) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.22 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.21 
    Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (Form for Non- Employee Directors) for grants prior to November 12, 2008 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.27 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended December 31, 2008 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.22 
    Form of Deferred Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2012 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.23 
    Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (Form for Non- Employee Directors) for grants beginning November 12, 2008 - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.28 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.24 
    Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (Form for Employees) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.29 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2014 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.25 
    Form of Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.30 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2013 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.26 
    Form of Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (Form for Corporate Officers) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2015 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.27 
    Form of Restricted Stock Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (Form for Corporate Officers) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2015 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.28 
    Form of Stock Option Grant under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (Form for Corporate Officers) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the fiscal quarter ended March 31, 2015 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.29 
    Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.32 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2015 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.30 
    Form of Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (Form for Corporate Officers) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.33 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      10.31 
    Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (Form for Corporate Officers) - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.34 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 (Management Compensatory Plan) 

89 

10.32 
    Form of Performance-Based Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan - incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.35 to the Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended June 30, 2016 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
       10.33  
    Form of Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan for grants beginning September 1, 2017 (Management Compensatory Plan)  
       10.34  
    Form of Stock Option Grant Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan for grants beginning September 1, 2017 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
       10.35  
    Form of Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement under the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan for grants beginning September 1, 2017 (Management Compensatory Plan) 
      21 
    Subsidiaries of the Company 
       23  
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
       31.1  
    Certification by Carlos A. Rodriguez pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
       31.2  
    Certification by Jan Siegmund pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
       32.1  
    Certification by Carlos A. Rodriguez pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
       32.2  
    Certification by Jan Siegmund pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
      101.INS 
    XBRL instance document 
      101.SCH 
    XBRL taxonomy extension schema document 
      101.CAL 
    XBRL taxonomy extension calculation linkbase document 
      101.LAB 
    XBRL taxonomy label linkbase document 
      101.PRE 
    XBRL taxonomy extension presentation linkbase document 
      101.DEF 
    XBRL taxonomy extension definition linkbase document 

90 

AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 
  AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  SCHEDULE II - VALUATION AND QUALIFYING ACCOUNTS 
  (In thousands) 

(A) Includes amounts related to foreign exchange fluctuation. 
  (B) Doubtful accounts written off, less recoveries on accounts previously written off. 

91 

SIGNATURES  
       Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the Registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized.  
                       
    AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 
        
                               (Registrant) 
        
      August 4, 2017 
    By  
    /s/ Carlos A. Rodriguez 

Carlos A. Rodriguez 

President and Chief Executive Officer 
   
      Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the Registrant in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
                       Signature 
          
    Title 
          
    Date 

/s/ Carlos A. Rodriguez 
      
    President and Chief Executive 
      
    August 4, 2017 
              (Carlos A. Rodriguez) 
      
    Officer, Director 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

/s/ Jan Siegmund 
      
    Chief Financial Officer 
      
    August 4, 2017 
              (Jan Siegmund) 
      
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/ Brock Albinson 
      
    Corporate Controller 
      
    August 4, 2017 
               (Brock Albinson) 
      
    (Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/ Peter Bisson 
      
    Director 
      
    August 4, 2017 
              (Peter Bisson) 

/s/ Richard T. Clark 
      
    Director 
      
    August 4, 2017 
              (Richard T. Clark) 

/s/ Eric C. Fast 
      
    Director 
      
    August 4, 2017 
              (Eric C. Fast) 

/s/ Linda R. Gooden 
      
    Director 
      
    August 4, 2017 
              (Linda R. Gooden) 

/s/ Michael P. Gregoire 
      
    Director 
      
    August 4, 2017 
              (Michael P. Gregoire) 

92 

93 

<EX-10.8>
 2
 exhibit108.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.8

Exhibit 

AMENDED AND RESTATED  SUPPLEMENTAL OFFICERS RETIREMENT PLAN 
  The purpose of this Amended and Restated Supplemental Officers Retirement Plan (the  Plan ) is to provide an additional means by which   AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.   may retain and encourage the productive efforts of a select group of corporate vice presidents and more senior corporate officers who provide valuable services to   AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC.   and its subsidiaries.  The Plan provides supplemental retirement benefits to qualifying participants.  The Plan was amended and restated in its entirety effective August 14, 2008 to, among other things, reflect certain design changes and to comply with Section 409A of the Code.  The Plan was further amended and restated in its entirety effective January 1, 2010, to reflect certain design changes, and was subsequently amended effective January 23, 2014, to close the Plan to new participants.  The Plan is hereby further amended and restated in its entirety effective August 3, 2017, to incorporate the January 2014 amendment, to freeze accruals under the Plan effective June 30, 2019, and to reflect certain related design changes. 
  The Plan reads as follows: 
  ARTICLE I          DEFINITIONS 
  The following terms when used in this Plan shall have the designated meaning, unless a different meaning is clearly required by the context. 
  1.1        62nd Birthday  .  Means the date which is the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the Participant s 62   nd    birthday. 
  1.2        Annual Plan Benefit  .  Subject to the limitations set forth in Section 3.1(c), the Annual Plan Benefit shall be (i) for Grandfathered Participants, the annual amount of a Participant s Plan benefit calculated in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.1(a) and (ii) for Non-Grandfathered Participants, the annual amount of a Participant s Plan benefit calculated in accordance with the provisions of Section 3.1(b), as applicable. 
  1.3        Committee  .  Three board members or senior officers of the Corporation appointed from time to time by the Board of Directors of the Company. 
  1.4        Board  .  The Board of Directors of the Company. 
  1.5        Code  .  The Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 

1.6        Company  .  Automatic Data Processing, Inc. ( ADP ) and its subsidiaries, and ADP s successors. 
  1.7        Disability  .   Disability  shall have the same meaning, and shall be determined in the same manner, as it is determined under the Company s Long Term Disability Insurance Program as in effect on the date the Disability begins;   provided  ,   however  , that a Participant shall not have a Disability for purposes of the Plan unless the Participant is unable to engage in any substantial gainful activity by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, or the Participant is, by reason of any medically determinable physical or mental impairment which can be expected to result in death or can be expected to last for a continuous period of not less than 12 months, receiving income replacement benefits for a period of not less than 3 months under an accident and health plan covering the Company s employees. 
  1.8        Early Retirement Benefit  .  Means an amount equal to the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit, as reduced in accordance with the terms of Section 3.3(b). 
  1.9        Early Retirement Date  .  Means the date which is the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the Participant s 60   th    birthday. 
  1.10        Final Average Annual Pay  . 
  (a)        For Non-Grandfathered Participants, Final Average Annual Pay shall mean the average annual compensation for such Participant for the five full consecutive calendar years during his Future Service period (without regard to any Future Service period after June 30, 2019) during which he received the largest total amount of compensation.  For this purpose, a Non-Grandfathered Participant s  compensation  shall mean the total compensation actually paid or accrued by the Company to or for such Non-Grandfathered Participant including, without limitation, bonuses paid or accrued, performance incentive payments and the like, and excluding relocation pay, severance pay, the value of any Company-provided fringe benefits (including, without limitation, car allowances, personal travel allowances and tax gross-ups), compensation derived from stock options, stock appreciation rights, stock plans and programs (including, without limitation, restricted stock plans and programs and grants of restricted stock units), or any similar plans; provided that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, amounts deferred at such Non-Grandfathered Participant s election under a plan described in section 401(k) of the Code, and the value (at time of grant) of any stock option grant made in lieu of a bonus payment, shall be included in such Participant s compensation.  For purposes of the immediately preceding two sentences, for a Non-Grandfathered Participant who remains in continuous employment with the Company through June 30, 2019, (i) the period from January 1, 2019, through June 30, 2019, shall be deemed a  full calendar year  during such Participant s Future Service period, and (ii) any bonus earned by the Participant in respect of the Company s 2019 fiscal year and paid in the first quarter of the Company s 2020 fiscal year will be deemed  compensation  

accrued by the Company   for such Non-Grandfathered Participant  in respect of such 2019 Future Service period.  The Company s chief executive officer shall determine the value of any stock option grant made in lieu of a bonus payment, which value shall not, in any event, be:  (i) greater than the  target bonus  amount the stock option grant was made in lieu of (the  Substituted Amount ) or (ii) less than the amount such Participant would have received had the foregoing stock option grant not been made and the normal bonus  scoring  methodology been applied to the Substituted Amount, provided that such amount shall not exceed the Substituted Amount.  The value of such stock option grant shall be included in a Non-Grandfathered Participant s compensation in the calendar year in which the bonus (which the stock option was granted in lieu of) would have otherwise been paid or accrued; and 
  (b)        Solely for purposes of determining a Grandfathered Participant s accrued benefit under Section 3.1(a)(2) as of December 31, 2009, Final Average Annual Pay shall mean the average annual compensation for such Grandfathered Participant for the five full consecutive calendar years during the portion of his Future Service period ending on December 31, 2009 during which he received the largest total amount of compensation.  For this purpose, a Grandfathered Participant s  compensation  shall mean the total compensation actually paid or accrued by the Company to or for such Participant including, without limitation, bonuses paid or accrued (other than any bonuses paid or accrued under the Company s three-year GIP growth incentive plan), performance incentive payments and the like and restricted stock plans and programs (other than (A) the Company s 2005 fiscal year and 2006 fiscal year broad-based performance-based restricted stock programs (PBRS) in which all  letter grade  associates participated and (B) the Company s two-year accelerated revenue PBRS programs (i.e. the ARPs), the first of which commenced in the Company s 2007 fiscal year), and excluding relocation pay, compensation derived from stock options, stock appreciation rights or any similar plans; provided that, notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, amounts deferred at such Participant s election under a plan described in section 401(k) of the Code, and the value (at time of grant) of any stock option grant made in lieu of a bonus payment, shall be included in such Grandfathered Participant s compensation.  The Company s chief executive officer shall determine the value of any stock option grant made in lieu of a bonus payment, which value shall not, in any event, be:  (i) greater than the Substituted Amount or (ii) less than the amount such Participant would have received had the foregoing stock option grant not been made and the normal bonus  scoring  methodology been applied to the Substituted Amount, provided that such amount shall not exceed the Substituted Amount.  The value of such stock option grant shall be included in a Grandfathered Participant s compensation in the calendar year in which the bonus (which the stock option was granted in lieu of) would have otherwise been paid or accrued.  The value (on the date that restrictions lapse) of a Grandfathered Participant s restricted stock with restrictions lapsing during the Company s fiscal year that begins during the applicable calendar year shall be included in the Participant s compensation for such calendar year; provided that, in the case of restricted stock that is includable in a Participant s compensation for calendar year 2007, the value of such restricted stock will be determined by multiplying (a) the price of a  

share of the Company s common stock on the date the restrictions thereon lapse (determined consistently with past practice), by (b) the number resulting from multiplying the aggregate number of includable restricted shares by a fraction, the numerator of which is the  last trade  price of a share of the Company s common stock on the trading date immediately prior to the date the Spin-off occurs and the denominator of which is the  first trade  price of the Company s common stock on the trading date on which the Spin-off has occurred.  For the avoidance of doubt, on and after January 1, 2010, when determining as of a date after December 31, 2009 the accrued benefit of a Grandfathered Participant who was actively employed by the Company or an affiliate on or after January 1, 2010, Final Average Annual Pay shall be as defined in the same manner as would apply under Section 1.10(a) of the Plan if he were a Non-Grandfathered Participant. 
  1.11        Former Participant  .  Means any person who (i) was a Participant in the Plan, (ii) stopped accruing benefits under the Plan pursuant to Article II(b), (iii) continued to be employed by the Company until after age 65 and (iv) has a Separation from Service more than one month after the Participant s accruals under the Plan cease pursuant to the clause (ii) of this definition. 
  1.12        Future Service  .  For Participants who had a Separation from Service prior to January 1, 2010, Future Service shall mean a Participant s period of full calendar years of continuous employment with the Company after his Plan participation has begun and shall only include the period of employment during which the Participant is accruing a benefit under the Plan.  For Participants who were actively employed on and after January 1, 2010, Future Service shall mean a Participant s period of full calendar years and months of continuous employment with the Company beginning upon the later of (A) January 1, 1989 and (B) the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the date on which the Board approved the Participant s election as officer of the Company, and ending on the first day of the calendar month next following the Participant s Separation from Service, provided that if the Participant s Separation from Service occurs on the first day of a calendar month, such Participant s Future Service shall end on such date. 
  In either case, leaves of absence of less than six months may be taken into account as Future Service, to the extent provided by the Committee.  The Committee may, in a Supplement, grant a Participant prior service credit for determining the length of his Future Service period. 
  1.13        Grandfathered Participant  .  A Participant participating in the Plan on January 1, 2008 and who attained age 50 by January 1, 2009. 
  1.14        Late Retirement Benefit  .  Means an amount equal to a Participant s Annual Plan Benefit, as actuarially adjusted using the Late Retirement Factors set forth in Exhibit A hereto based on the number of complete months elapsed  

between a Participant s 65   th    birthday and the date as of which benefits commence under the Plan. 
  1.15        Maximum Annual Benefit Limitation  .  The Maximum Annual Benefit Limitation shall be (i) for Grandfathered Participants (A) with respect to benefits determined as of December 31, 2009, 25% of a Participant s Final Average Annual Pay, and (B) with respect to benefits determined on or after January 1, 2010, the specific limit set forth for such Grandfathered Participant in Sections 2.2-2.5 of Supplement C to the Plan, as applicable, and (ii) for Non-Grandfathered Participants, 45% of a Participant s Final Average Annual Pay. 
  1.16        Non-Grandfathered Participant  .  A Participant who was not participating in the Plan on January 1, 2008 or who had not attained age 50 by January 1, 2009. 
  1.17        Normal Retirement Date  .  Means the date which is the first day of the calendar month coincident with or next following the Participant s or Former Participant s 65   th    birthday. 
  1.18        Participant  .  An individual who has been designated as a Participant by the Committee pursuant to Article II. 
  1.19        Pension Plan  .  Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Pension Retirement Plan. 
  1.20        Separation from Service  .  Shall mean that employment with the Company and its subsidiaries and affiliates terminates such that it is reasonably anticipated that no further services will be performed.  Separation from Service shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Section 409A of the Code and any applicable regulatory guidance promulgated thereunder.  References hereunder to a Participant s termination of employment, the date a Participant s employment terminates and the like, shall refer to the ceasing of the Participant s employment with the Company for any reason. 
  1.21        Spin-off  .  The tax-free spin-off of the Company s Brokerage Services Group business. 
  1.22        Supplement  .  A supplement attached to and made a part of this Plan, which shall set forth for specific designated Participants any special conditions applicable to such Participants.  The Supplements to the Plan as of August 3, 2017 are Supplements A, B and C. 
  1.23        Vested Percentage  .  With respect to Participants who had a Separation from Service prior to January 1, 2010, except to the extent set forth in Sections 3.4 and 5.5, until a Participant completes 5 full calendar years of Future Service, such Participant s Vested Percentage shall be 0% and he shall not be entitled to any Plan  

benefits hereunder.  Upon completing 5, 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 or more full calendar years of Future Service, a Participant s Vested Percentage shall be 50%, 60%, 70%, 80%, 90%, and 100%, respectively.  For Participants who were actively employed by the Company or its affiliates on or after January 1, 2010 the Participant s Vested Percentage shall be determined based on completed years and months of Future Service in accordance with Exhibit B to the Plan.  The Committee may, in a Supplement, grant a Participant prior service credit for purposes of determining his Vested Percentage.   
  ARTICLE II          ELIGIBILITY 
  (a)        No employees of the Company shall be designated by the Committee as a new Participant in the Plan after January 23, 2014. 
  (b)        A person shall automatically cease to be a Participant on the earlier to occur of the date on which:  (i) he is no longer a corporate vice president or a more senior corporate officer of the Company; or (ii) he ceases to participate to the maximum extent permissible in the Company s retirement plans (including, without limitation, the Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Retirement and Savings Plan and the Automatic Data Processing, Inc. Pension Retirement Plan). 
  ARTICLE III 
  RETIREMENT BENEFITS 
  3.1        In General  . 
  (a)        Grandfathered Participants  .  A Grandfathered Participant s Annual Plan Benefit is the greater of (1) the benefit for such Grandfathered Participant determined under Supplement C to the Plan and (2) the product of (i) his Final Average Annual Pay determined solely in respect of the portion of his Future Service period ending December 31, 2009 (and without regard to the last sentence of Section 1.10(b) of the Plan), (ii) his Future Service period through December 31, 2009 only, (iii) 1  % and (iv) his Vested Percentage (reflecting his Future Service period through the date of the Grandfathered Participant s Separation from Service), less the amount payable under the Pension Plan pursuant to a transfer from the Plan to the Pension Plan;   provided     that  , in no event, may the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit exceed the Maximum Annual Benefit Limitation applicable to him (including any amount transferred from the Plan to the Pension Plan). 
  (b)        Non-Grandfathered Participants  .  A Non-Grandfathered Participant s Annual Plan Benefit is the sum of (A) the product of (i) his Final Average Annual Pay, (ii) his Future Service period through June 30, 2019 (up to a maximum of 20  

years), (iii) 2% and (iv) his Vested Percentage and (B) the product of (i) his Final Average Annual Pay, (ii) any additional years of Future Service through June 30, 2019 credited to the Participant after the initial 20 years of Future Service in clause (ii) above have been credited, but in any event no more than 5 additional years, (iii) 1% and (iv) his Vested Percentage, less the amount payable under the Pension Plan pursuant to a transfer from the Plan to the Pension Plan; provided that, in no event, may the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit exceed the Maximum Annual Benefit Limitation applicable to him (including any amount transferred to the Pension Plan).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall a Non-Grandfathered Participant s Annual Plan Benefit finally determined hereunder be less than the value of such Participant s Annual Plan Benefit determined as of December 31, 2008 (calculated for this purpose only as if such Participant were a Grandfathered Participant). 
  (c)        A Participant s benefits under this Plan shall be expressed as an annual amount in the form of a straight life annuity or, at the Committee s election, another actuarially equivalent payment option. 
  3.2        Time of Commencement of Benefits  .  A Participant s Annual Plan Benefit shall be payable only upon Separation from Service, Disability, or Death as detailed in this Article III.  Annual Plan Benefits for any given Participant shall commence on the earliest to occur of: 
  (a)        The later of: 
  (i)        Attainment of age 60; 
  (ii)        The first day of the seventh month following the month in which the Participant s Separation From Service occurs; 
  (b)        Disability; or 
  (c)        Death. 
  3.3        Amount of Benefit  . 
  (a)        Normal Retirement Benefit  .  Except in cases where Section 3.3(c) applies with respect to certain Participants, the Company will pay a Participant his Annual Plan Benefit if benefits commence under the Plan on or after the Participant s Normal Retirement Date.  Payment of an Annual Plan Benefit shall commence in accordance with Section 3.2 and end with:  (A) in the case of a single life annuity, the payment for the month in which the Participant s death occurs, (B) in the case of a joint and survivor annuity, the later of (1) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant occurs or (2) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant s beneficiary occurs or (C) in the case of a 10 year certain and life annuity, the later of (1) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant occurs or (2) the one hundred and twentieth monthly payment.  When paid in the form of a monthly  

annuity, each payment shall be equal to one-twelfth of such Participant s Annual Plan Benefit, actuarially adjusted for the form of payment selected by the Participant, as applicable. 
  (b)        Early Retirement Benefit  . 
  (i)        The Company will pay a Participant his Early Retirement Benefit if benefits commence under the Plan on or after the Participant s Early Retirement Date and prior to his Normal Retirement Date.  Payment of an Early Retirement Benefit shall commence in accordance with Section 3.2 and end with:  (A) in the case of a single life annuity, the payment for the month in which the Participant s death occurs, (B) in the case of a joint and survivor annuity, the later of (1) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant occurs or (2) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant s beneficiary occurs or (C) in the case of a 10 year certain and life annuity, the later of (1) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant occurs or (2) the one hundred and twentieth monthly payment.  When paid in the form of a monthly annuity, each payment shall be equal to one-twelfth of such Participant s Early Retirement Benefit, actuarially adjusted for the form of payment selected by the Participant, as applicable. 
  (ii)        Solely for purposes of calculating a Grandfathered Participant s Early Retirement Benefit as of December 31, 2009, taking into account the Grandfathered Participant s Final Average Annual Pay and Future Service credited through that date, a Grandfathered Participant s Early Retirement Benefit shall be in an amount equal to the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit, reduced at a rate of 5/12 of 1% per month for each full month by which the date the Participant s benefit commences precedes the Participant s Normal Retirement Date. 
  (iii)        If a Non-Grandfathered Participant s Early Retirement Benefit commences after the Participant s 62   nd    Birthday but prior to his Normal Retirement Date, his benefit shall be in an amount equal to the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit, reduced at a rate of 4/12 of 1% per month for each full month by which the date the Participant s benefit commences precedes the his Normal Retirement Date.  If the Non-Grandfathered Participant s Early Retirement Benefit commences before the Participant s 62   nd    Birthday, his benefit shall be reduced (x) at a rate of 5/12 of 1% per month for each full month by which the date the Participant s benefit commences precedes the Participant s 62   nd    Birthday, and (y) at a rate of 4/12 of 1% per month for each full month by which the date the Participant s 62   nd    Birthday precedes the Participant s Normal Retirement Date. 
  (iv)        Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, the Early Retirement Benefit of a Grandfathered Participant commencing on or after January 1, 2010 shall be the greater of: (A) the Annual Plan Benefit determined under Section 3.1(a)(1) of the Plan, reduced using the factors set forth in Section 3.3(b)(iii) of the Plan that would otherwise apply if he were a Non-Grandfathered Participant,  

and (B) the Annual Plan Benefit determined under Section 3.1(a)(2) of the Plan, reduced using the factors set forth in Section 3.3(b)(ii) of the Plan.   
  (c)        Late Retirement Benefit  .  The Company will pay a Former Participant his Late Retirement Benefit if benefits commence under the Plan on or after the Former Participant s Normal Retirement Date.  Payment of a Late Retirement Benefit shall commence in accordance with Section 3.2 and end with:  (A) in the case of a single life annuity, the payment for the month in which the Participant s death occurs, (B) in the case of a joint and survivor annuity, the later of (1) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant occurs or (2) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant s beneficiary occurs or (C) in the case of a 10 year certain and life annuity, the later of (1) the payment for the month in which the death of the Participant occurs or (2) the one hundred and twentieth monthly payment.  When paid in the form of a monthly annuity, each payment shall be equal to one-twelfth of such Participant s Late Retirement Benefit, actuarially adjusted for the form of payment selected by the Participant, as applicable.  This subsection 3.3(c) shall only apply to Former Participants. 
  (d)        No Interest for Delayed Payments  .  Payments to Participants which are made or commence in accordance with Section 3.2(a)(ii) shall include a single lump sum payment in respect of the period beginning on the Participant s Separation from Service and ending on the first day of the seventh month following the month in which the Participant s Separation From Service occurs.  Such single lump sum payment shall be made without interest. 
  (e)        Date as of Which Benefits Are Determined  .  Solely for purposes of (i) determining whether a Participant shall receive an Early Retirement Benefit, an Annual Plan Benefit or a Late Retirement Benefit and (ii) calculating the amount of such Early Retirement Benefit, Annual Plan Benefit or Late Retirement Benefit, as applicable, Section 3.2(a)(ii) shall be deemed to read,  the first day of the first month following the month in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs.   In a case in which a Participant has a Separation from Service on the first day of a calendar month, for the purposes set forth in the preceding sentence only, Section 3.2(a)(ii) shall be deemed to read,  the first day of the calendar month in which the Participant s Separation from Service occurs.  
  3.4        Disability Retirement Benefit  .  If a Participant shall incur a Disability while employed by the Company, the Company shall pay such Participant a monthly benefit starting on the first day of the calendar month after the date his Disability begins and ending with the payment for the calendar month in which his death occurs or his disability ends, whichever occurs first.  Such monthly benefit (which shall not be reduced by, and shall not reduce, the benefits, if any, payable to a Participant under the Company s Long Term Disability Insurance Program) shall be calculated in the same way as an Early Retirement Benefit under Section 3.3, based on his Final Average Annual Pay when his Disability begins (which will, for purposes of this Section 3.4 only, be determined over less than five full consecutive calendar years to the extent that his Future  

Service period is less than five years), except that (i) the Vested Percentage shall always be 100%, (ii) there shall not be any actuarial reduction to reflect the commencement of the payment of benefits before his Normal Retirement Date, and (iii) there shall not be any Future Service period accrual during his Disability. 
  3.5        Form of Benefit  . 
  (a)        Annuity Forms  .  A Participant may elect payment of his benefit (other than a Disability Retirement Benefit pursuant to Section 3.4) in one of the following actuarially equivalent forms: 
             
    Single Life Annuity; 
                
    25% Joint and Survivor Annuity; 
                
    50% Joint and Survivor Annuity; 
                
    75% Joint and Survivor Annuity; 
                 
    10-Year Certain and Life Annuity 
     Each form of benefit listed in this subsection 3.5(a) shall be paid in a series of substantially equal periodic payments, payable not less frequently than annually, for the life of the Participant (and beneficiary, if applicable and dictated by the form of payment selected, and for a period of time not less than that guaranteed by the form of payment selected), starting as of the date as of which payments to such Participant under this Article III are to begin.  Actuarial equivalence for purposes of this subsection 3.5(a) only shall have the same meaning as in the Pension Plan. 
  (b)        Lump Sum Election Before 2009  .  An active Participant who has not had a termination of employment and in respect of whom payment of benefits hereunder have not commenced by December 31, 2008 may also make an irrevocable election prior to January 1, 2009 to receive payment of either 25% or 50% of his accrued benefit in a single lump sum. 
  (c)        Change to Form of Payment  .  On and after January 1, 2009 an active Participant who has not had a termination of employment and who has not previously elected to receive a portion of his benefit in a single lump sum may make an election to receive either 25% or 50% of his accrued benefit in a single lump sum if all of the following conditions are met: 
  (i)        The lump sum election shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which it is made; 

(ii)        The election must be made at least 12 months prior to the date on which the first annuity payment for the Participant is otherwise scheduled to be made; and 
  (iii)        The election must delay the payment for at least five years from the date the first annuity payment would otherwise have been made. 
  (d)        Payment Elections for Newly Eligible Participants  .  Within 30 days following the date on which a Participant first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, the Participant shall elect whether to receive payment of his entire accrued benefit (i) in the form of one of the annuities listed in Section 3.5(a) or (ii) a portion of his benefit in the form of an annuity and 25% or 50% of his accrued benefit in a single lump sum.  If no such election has been made by the 30th day following the date on which the Participant first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, the Participants  accrued benefit under the Plan shall be paid in the form of an annuity listed in Section 3.5(a). 
  (e)        Actuarial Assumptions for Single Lump Sum Payments  .  The amount of any single lump sum paid pursuant to subsections 3.5 (b), (c) or (d) shall be calculated as of the date on which payment of a Participant s benefit shall commence by multiplying the percentage of the benefit to be paid as a single lump sum by an actuarial present value factor determined using the interest rate and mortality table most recently applied for purposes of ASC Topic 715 financial statement disclosures with respect to the Plan. 
  3.6        No Duplication  .  In no event shall benefits become payable to any Participant under more than one Section of this Article III. 
  ARTICLE IV 
    FORFEITURES 
    
  4.1        Forfeiture for Competitive Employment  .  A Participant shall forever and irrevocably forfeit all benefits otherwise due to him under the terms of the Plan if within 24 months after his employment terminates (including if his employment with the Company is terminated on account of his dishonesty or gross negligence) he violates the non-competition provisions of any agreement he has entered into with the Company. 
  4.2        Limitation  .  If all or any portion of Section 4.1 shall be finally held by a court of competent jurisdiction to be unenforceable as a matter of law, it shall be construed to apply to the greatest extent permitted by law so as to give effect to its intended purposes. 

ARTICLE V         CONDITIONS RELATED TO BENEFITS 
  5.1        Administration of Plan  .  The Committee shall administer the Plan and shall have the sole and exclusive authority to interpret, construe and apply its provisions.  The Committee shall have the power to establish, adopt and revise such rules and regulations as it may deem necessary or advisable for the administration of the Plan and the operation of the Committee s activities in connection therewith.  All decisions of the Committee shall be by vote or written consent of the majority of its members and shall be final and binding.  Members of the Committee shall be eligible to participate in the Plan while serving as a member of the Committee, but a member of the Committee shall not vote or act upon any matter which relates solely to such member in his capacity as a Participant. 
  5.2        Grantor Trust  .  The Committee may, at its discretion, have the Company create a grantor trust (within the meaning of section 671 of the Code) to which it may from time to time contribute amounts to accumulate an appropriate reserve against its obligations hereunder.  Notwithstanding the creation of such trust, the benefits hereunder shall be a general obligation of the Company.  Except to the extent that the benefit amounts payable hereunder have been specifically transferred for an identified Participant into the Pension Plan pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan and are payable thereunder, a Participant shall have only a contractual right as a general creditor of the Company to the amounts, if any, payable hereunder and such right shall not be secured by any assets of the Company or the trust. 
  5.3        No Right to Company Assets  .  Except to the extent that benefit amounts have been specifically transferred for an identified Participant into the Pension Plan pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Pension Plan and are payable thereunder, neither a Participant nor any other person shall acquire by reason of the Plan any right in or title to any assets, funds or property of the Company whatsoever including, without limiting the generality of the foregoing, any specific funds or assets which the Company may set aside in anticipation of a liability hereunder, nor in any policy or policies of insurance on the life of a Participant owned by the Company. 
  5.4        No Employment Rights  .  Nothing herein shall constitute a contract of continuing employment or in any manner obligate the Company to continue the service of a Participant, or obligate a Participant to continue in the service of the Company, and nothing herein shall be construed as fixing or regulating the compensation paid to a Participant. 
  5.5        Company s Right to Terminate and Amend  .  The Company reserves the right in its sole discretion at any time to amend the Plan in any respect or terminate the Plan.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no such amendment or termination shall reduce the amount of the benefit theretofore vested by any Participant or change the conditions required to be satisfied to receive payment of such past accrued benefit based  

on the provisions of the Plan as theretofore in effect.  For this purpose, the amount of a Participant s accrued benefit as of the date of any amendment or termination shall be determined as if the Participant were then retiring in accordance with Section 3.3 with his actual Vested Percentage accrued as of such date; provided that if the Company is terminating the Plan and if a Participant has not completed at least 5 years of Future Service, the Participant s Vested Percentage shall be (i) 40% if he has completed 4 years of Future Service, (ii) 30% if he has completed 3 years of Future Service, (iii) 20% if he has completed 2 years of Future Service, (iv) 10% if he has completed 1 year of Future Service, and (v) 0% if he has not completed 1 year of Future Service. 
  5.6        Protective Provisions  .  The Participant shall cooperate with the Company by furnishing any and all information requested by the Company in order to facilitate the payment of benefits hereunder. 
  5.7        Right of Offset  .  If at the time any payments are to be made hereunder a Participant is indebted to the Company or otherwise subject to a monetary claim by the Company, such payments may, at the Company s discretion, be reduced by setoff of up to $5,000 in any given taxable year of the Participant against the amount of such indebtedness or claim. 
  5.8        No Third Party Rights  .  Nothing in this Plan or any trust established pursuant to Section 5.2 hereof shall be construed to create any rights hereunder in favor of any person (other than the Company and any Participant) or to limit the Company s right to amend or terminate the Plan in any manner subject to Section 5.5 hereof. 
  5.9        Section 409A  .  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, it is intended that the provisions of this Plan shall comply with Section 409A of the Code, and all provisions of this Plan shall be construed and interpreted in a manner consistent with the requirements for avoiding taxes or penalties under Section 409A of the Code.  Each Participant is solely responsible and liable for the satisfaction of all taxes and penalties that may be imposed on or in respect of such Participant in connection with this Plan or any other plan maintained by the Company (including any taxes and penalties under Section 409A of the Code), and neither the Company nor any subsidiary or affiliate shall have any obligation to indemnify or otherwise hold such Participant (or any beneficiary) harmless from any or all of such taxes or penalties. 
  ARTICLE VI 
  MISCELLANEOUS 
  6.1        Nonassignability  .  No rights or payments to any Participant shall be subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance or charge, whether voluntary or involuntary, and no attempt so to anticipate, alienate, sell, transfer, assign, pledge, encumber or charge the same shall be valid, nor shall any such benefit or payment be in any way liable for or subject to the debts,  

contracts, liabilities, engagements or torts of any Participant or subject to levy, garnishment, attachment, execution or other legal or equitable process.  No part of the amounts payable shall, prior to actual payment, be subject to seizure or sequestration for the payment of any debts, judgments, alimony or separate maintenance owed by a Participant, nor be transferable by operation of law in the event of a Participant s bankruptcy or insolvency. 
  6.2        Withholding  .  To the extent required by law the Company shall be entitled to withhold from any payments due hereunder any federal, state and local taxes required to be withheld in connection with such payment. 
  6.3        Gender and Number  .  Wherever appropriate herein, the masculine shall mean the feminine and the singular shall mean the plural or vice versa. 
  6.4        Notice  .  Any notice required or permitted to be made under the Plan shall be sufficient if in writing and hand delivered, or sent by registered or certified mail, to (a) in the case of notice to the Company or the Committee, the principal office of the Company, directed to the attention of the Secretary of the Committee, and (b) in the case of a Participant, such Participant s home or business address maintained in the Company s personnel records.  Such notice shall be deemed given as of the date of delivery or, if delivery is made by mail, as of the date shown on the postmark or on the receipt for registration or certification. 
  6.5        Validity  .  In the event any provision of this Plan is held invalid, void or unenforceable, the same shall not affect, in any respect whatsoever, the validity of any other provision of this Plan. 
  6.6        Applicable Law  .  This Plan shall be governed and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of New Jersey, without regard to such state s choice of law rules. 
  ARTICLE VII          SURVIVOR BENEFITS 
  7.1        Qualification and General Election  . 
  (a)        Qualification  .  In the event of the death of a Participant who is at least 35 years of age at the time of his death, who is vested in accordance with the provisions of Paragraph 1.26, and who dies prior to commencing payment of his vested benefit under the Plan, a surviving spouse benefit shall be payable under Section 7.2. 
  (b)        Survivor Benefit Election Before 2009  .  An active Participant who (i) has not had a termination of employment, (ii) is employed by the Company on or after August 9, 2007, and (iii) in respect of whom payment of benefits  

under the Plan have not commenced by December 31, 2008 may make an irrevocable election prior to January 1, 2009 to waive the surviving spouse benefit provided under Section 7.2 and instead elect the survivor benefit provided under Section 7.3. 
  (c)        Survivor Benefit Election After December 31, 2008  .  On and after January 1, 2009 an active Participant who (i) has not had a termination of employment and (ii) has not previously elected to waive the surviving spouse benefit provided under Section 7.2 in favor of the survivor benefit provided under Section 7.3, may do so on or after January 1, 2009 if all of the following conditions are met: 
  (i)        The survivor benefit election shall not take effect until at least 12 months after the date on which it is made; 
  (ii)        The election must be made at least 12 months prior to the date on which the first annuity payment for the Participant is otherwise scheduled to be made; and 
  (iii)        The election must delay the payment for at least five years from the date the first annuity payment would otherwise have been made. 
  (d)        Survivor Benefit Elections for Newly Eligible     Participants  .  Within 30 days following the date on which a Participant first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan, the Participant may make an irrevocable election to waive the surviving spouse benefit provided under Section 7.2 and instead elect the survivor benefit provided under Section 7.3.  If no such election has been made by the 30th day following the date on which the Participant first becomes eligible to participate in the Plan and such Participant dies prior to commencing payment of his vested benefit under the Plan, only a surviving spouse benefit shall be payable under Section 7.2 in respect of the Participant s vested Plan benefit. 
  The waiver and election provided under this Section 7.1 must be made by the Participant in accordance with procedures adopted by the Committee. 
  7.2        Surviving Spouse Benefit  .  The surviving spouse of a deceased Participant who otherwise meets the conditions set forth in Section 7.1 shall be entitled to receive a surviving spouse benefit under the Plan determined as of the date of the deceased Participant s death.  This surviving spouse benefit shall be payable monthly as a straight life annuity benefit and shall be calculated based on 50% of the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit, actuarially adjusted for the 50% joint and survivor annuity form of payment and further reduced in accordance with Section 3.3(b) for payment prior to the Participant s Normal Retirement Date.  Payment of the surviving spouse benefit shall commence on the later of (i) the date the Participant would have attained age 60 had the Participant survived until such age or (ii) the date of the Participant s death. 
  7.3        Survivor Benefit  .  If elected pursuant to 7.1 herein, the beneficiary of a deceased Participant who meets the conditions set forth in Section 7.1  

shall be entitled to receive a survivor benefit that is actuarially equivalent to the surviving spouse benefit described in Section 7.2, determined as of the date of the deceased Participant s death.  This survivor benefit shall be payable in monthly installments for exactly 120 months and shall be calculated based on 50% of the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit, actuarially adjusted for the guaranteed 120 month installment form of payment and further reduced in accordance with Section 3.3(b) for payment prior to the Participant s Normal Retirement Date.  Payment of the survivor benefit shall commence on the later of (i) the date the participant would have attained age 60 had the Participant survived until such age or (ii) the date of the Participant s death.  For purposes of this Section 7.3, a Participant may designate his spouse, children, domestic partner, or a trust for the benefit of the Participant s spouse, children, or domestic partner, whichever the case may be, as a beneficiary entitled to receipt of the benefit provided hereunder. 

Supplement A 
  1.1      In General 
  (a)    As of the Spin-off date, Participants transferring to Broadridge Financial Solutions, Inc. ( Broadridge ) are no longer eligible to participate in the Plan, except the executive with employee identification number 100600 ( Executive ). 
  (b)    As of the Spin-off date, Executive s accrued benefit under the Plan shall be Executive s projected accrued benefit at the age of 65 based upon terms and factors agreed upon in   Appendix A  . 
  (c)    If Executive voluntarily terminates employment with Broadridge prior to age 65, Executive s accrued benefit will be re-calculated to what Executive would have accrued from the Spin-off date to the last day employed at Broadridge. 
  (d)    Executive will no longer be an eligible Participant of the Plan if Executive becomes a participant in any supplemental officers retirement plan sponsored by Broadridge, whose terms are substantially similar to the Plan as of the Spin-off date.  Such determination shall be made solely by the Company. 
  1.2      Distributions 
  (a)    Executive s benefits shall commence on his 65th birthday, whether or not Executive is still employed at Broadridge. 
  (b)    Executive s elections shall be irrevocable. 

Appendix A to Supplement A 
  Agreed Upon Assumptions to Project the Benefits to Age 65 
             3. 
    Average of the high   low of the ADP stock price on the day of the spin projected at 8% to age 65 

Supplement B 
  Notwithstanding anything in this Plan to the contrary, each Participant with an employee identification number listed below, shall receive a distribution from this Plan commencing as of the first day of the month following the attainment of age 65. 
  Employee Identification Number 
  (i)    103621 
  (ii)    103594 
  (iii)    103724 

Supplement C 
  Special Appendix  
  to 
  THE AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 
  SUPPLEMENTAL OFFICERS RETIREMENT PLAN 
  Special Provisions Applicable to Selected Participants 
  This appendix sets forth special provisions of the Plan that apply to selected Participants identified herein.  Except as specifically set forth herein, defined terms used herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan. 
  1.        Definitions 
  For purposes of this Special Appendix: 
            1.2. 
       Final Average Annual Pay    shall have the meaning set forth in Section 1.10(a) of the Plan. 
               1.4. 
       Group II Appendix Participant    shall mean the Participant identified by the following Company Employee Identification Number:  139219.   
              1.5. 
       Group III Appendix Participant    shall mean the Participant identified by the following Company Employee Identification Number:  100606. 
              1.6. 
       Group IV Appendix Participant    shall mean the Participant identified by the following Company Employee Identification Number:  100635. 
     2.        Revised Formulas for Grandfathered Participants 
           2.1. 
    In General  .  Notwithstanding any provision of the Plan to the contrary, effective January 1, 2010, benefits under the Plan for an Appendix Participant shall be determined by taking into account the applicable provisions in this Special Appendix;   provided, however  , that no Appendix Participant s Plan benefit as determined as of a date on or  

after January 1, 2010 shall be less than the benefit determined as of December 31, 2009 without regard to this Special Appendix. 
           2.2. 
    Benefit Formula for Group I Appendix Participants  .  A Group I Appendix Participant s Annual Plan Benefit is the product of (i) his Final Average Annual Pay, (ii) his Future Service period (up to a maximum of 18.75 years), (iii) 2.4% and (iv) his Vested Percentage, less the amount payable under the Pension Plan pursuant to a transfer from the Plan to the Pension Plan; provided that, in no event, may the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit exceed 45% of the Group I Appendix Participant s Final Average Annual Pay (including any amount transferred from the Plan to the Pension Plan).   
              2.3. 
    Benefit Formula for Group II Appendix Participant  .  A Group II Appendix Participant s Annual Plan Benefit is the sum of (A) the product of (i) his Final Average Annual Pay, (ii) his Future Service period (up to a maximum of 20 years), (iii) 2% and (iv) his Vested Percentage and (B) the product of (i) his Final Average Annual Pay, (ii) any additional years of Future Service credited to the Participant after an initial 20 years of Future Service have been credited, but in any event no more than 5 additional years, (iii) 1% and (iv) his Vested Percentage, less the amount payable under the Pension Plan pursuant to a transfer from the Plan to the Pension Plan; provided that, in no event, may the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit exceed 45% of the Group II Appendix Participant s Final Average Annual Pay (including any amount transferred from the Plan to the Pension Plan). 
              2.4. 
    Benefit Formula for Group III Appendix Participants  .  A Group III Appendix Participant s Annual Plan Benefit is the product of (i) his Final Average Annual Pay, (ii) his Future Service period (up to a maximum of 20 years), (iii) 1.95% and (iv) his Vested Percentage, less the amount payable under the Pension Plan pursuant to a transfer from the Plan to the Pension Plan; provided that, in no event, may the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit exceed 39% of the Group III Appendix Participant s Final Average Annual Pay (including any amount transferred from the Plan to the Pension Plan).   
              2.5. 
    Benefit Formula for Group IV Appendix Participants  .  A Group IV Appendix Participant s Annual Plan Benefit is the product of (i) his Final Average Annual Pay, (ii) his Future Service period (up to a maximum of 20 years), (iii) 2% and (iv) his Vested Percentage, less the amount payable under the Pension Plan pursuant to a transfer from the Plan to the Pension Plan; provided that, in no event, may the Participant s Annual Plan Benefit exceed 40% of the Group IV Appendix Participant s Final Average Annual Pay (including any amount transferred from the Plan to the Pension Plan).   

Exhibit A 
  Late Retirement Factors 

Exhibit B 
  Vested Percentage Based on Full and Partial Years of Future Service 

Note:  Until a Participant completes 5 full calendar years of Future Service, such Participant s Vested Percentage shall be 0%, and he shall not be entitled to any Plan benefits hereunder. 

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.33>
 3
 exhibit1033.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.33

Exhibit 

AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. (the    Company   ), pursuant to the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (the    Plan   ), hereby irrevocably grants you (the    Participant   ), on [DATE] (the    Grant Date   ), a Performance Stock Unit Award (the    Award   ) of forfeitable performance stock units of the Company (   PSUs   ), each PSU representing the right to receive one share of the Company s common stock, par value $0.10 per share (   Common Stock   ), subject to (1) the restrictions, terms and conditions herein and (2) any special terms and conditions applicable to the Participant, as set forth in the appendices attached hereto (the    Appendices   ). 
  WHEREAS, the Participant has been selected as a participant in the three-year performance stock unit program of the Company covering the Company s 20[XX], 20[XX] and 20[XX] fiscal years, as described in the letter previously provided to the Participant (the    PSU Award Letter    and 
  WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board of Directors of the Company (the    Board   ) has determined that it would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to grant the award provided for herein to the Participant, on the terms and conditions described in this Performance Stock Unit Award Agreement (including the Appendices, the    Agreement   ). 
  NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the promises and the covenants of the parties contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, for themselves, and their permitted successors and assigns, hereby agree as follows: 
           1. 
    Terms and Conditions. 
       
  (a)  Award  .  Subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, the actual number of PSUs that are earned, if any, pursuant to the terms and conditions of the Award will be determined by the Company (the    Total Award   ) and shall be computed in accordance with Section 3 below, as a percentage of the sum of (i) the Target Number of PSUs set forth in the PSU Award Letter (the    Target Award   ) plus (ii) any Dividend Equivalent PSUs (as defined below).  The Total Award shall be a whole number of PSUs only. 
    
  (b)  Performance Period; Measurement Period  .  Subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, the performance period for the Award commenced on July 1, 20[XX] and shall terminate on June 30, 20[XX] (the    Performance Period   ).  During the Performance Period there will be three (3) separate measurement periods (each, a    Measurement Period   ) of the Company s performance based on a financial metric established by the Committee and communicated to the Participant (the    Financial Metric   ).   
    
  (c)  Dividend Equivalents  .  Until shares of Common Stock are delivered to the Participant in respect of the settlement of the Award, at no time shall the Participant be deemed for any purpose to be the owner of shares of Common Stock in connection with the Award and the Participant shall have no right to dividends in respect of the Award;   provided  ,   however  , that each time the Company pays a dividend with respect to a share of Common Stock during the period from the Grant Date to the Payout Date (as defined below), the Participant shall be credited with an additional number of PSUs (the    Dividend Equivalent PSUs   ) equal to (i) the quotient obtained by dividing the amount of such dividend by the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan) of a share of Common Stock on such date, multiplied by (ii) the Target Award. 
    
  (d)  Settlement  .  For Participants whose home country is the United States, subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, the Company shall settle the Award by causing one share of Common Stock for each PSU in the Total Award that is outstanding (and not previously forfeited) as of the Payout Date to be registered in the name of the Participant and held in book-entry form on the Payout Date. For Participants whose home country is not the United States, subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, the Company shall settle the Award by the payment to the Participant in cash (without interest) of an amount equal to the Fair Market Value of the PSUs (the U.S. dollar value of your PSUs will be converted into your local currency using the exchange rate determined by the Company) on the Payout Date, in each case, subject to applicable withholding taxes.  
    
           2. 
    Forfeiture of PSUs  .   
     (a)  Termination of Employment Generally  .  Except as otherwise determined by the Company in its sole discretion or as provided in Section 2(b) or Appendix A to this Agreement, all PSUs and Dividend  

Equivalent PSUs shall be forfeited without consideration to the Participant upon the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or its Affiliates for any reason (and the Participant shall forfeit any rights to receive shares of Common Stock or cash in respect of the Award).  For Participants whose home country is not the United States, for purposes of this Award, the Participant s employment relationship will be considered terminated as of the date the Participant is no longer actively providing services to the Company or one of its Affiliates (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not such termination is later found invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed, or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), and unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, the Participant s right to vest in the PSUs under the Plan, if any, will terminate as of such date and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g.  , the Participant s period of service would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any). 
    
  (b)  Termination due to Death, Disability or Retirement  .  In the event that after completion of the first Measurement Period in the Performance Period but prior to the end of the Performance Period, the Participant s employment with the Company is terminated due to death, Disability (as defined in the Plan) or retirement (defined for purposes of this Agreement as voluntary termination of employment at or after age 65, or age 55 with 10 years of service with the Company or its Affiliates), the Participant shall be entitled to receive a pro-rata portion of the Award determined in accordance with Section 3.  For the avoidance of doubt, if the Participant s employment is terminated prior to June 30, 20[XX] due to death, Disability or retirement, the Award and any rights to receive shares of Common Stock, cash and Dividend Equivalent PSUs with respect thereto, will be forfeited without consideration. 
    
           3. 
          Performance Determinations  .  
     (a)  Subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, prior to or during each Measurement Period, the Company will adopt a schedule setting forth for such Measurement Period potential ranges of the Company s Financial Metric (which may be an absolute dollar or other value for such period, or growth percentage relative to a prior period, as the Company may determine).  If the Participant is employed with the Company or its Affiliates at the completion of the Performance Period, then following completion of the Performance Period the Company will determine the Total Award, calculated as the number (rounded down to the nearest whole PSU) equal to the product of (i) the Target Award plus any Dividend Equivalent PSUs and (ii) the Final Payout Percentage. 
    
  (b)  If the Participant s employment with the Company or its Affiliates has terminated after the first Measurement Period within the Performance Period but prior to the end of the Performance Period due to death or Disability, then as soon as administratively feasible (in the Committee s sole discretion) following such termination the Company will determine the Total Award, calculated as the number (rounded down to the nearest whole PSU) equal to the product of (i) the Target Award plus any Dividend Equivalent PSUs, (ii) the Final Payout Percentage, and (iii) the Pro-Rata Percentage.   
    
  (c)  If the Participant s employment with the Company and its Affiliates has terminated after the first Measurement Period within the Performance Period but prior to the end of the Performance Period due to retirement, then following completion of the Performance Period the Company will determine the Total Award, calculated as the number (rounded down to the nearest whole PSU) equal to the product of (i) the Target Award plus any Dividend Equivalent PSUs, (ii) the Final Payout Percentage, and (iii) the Pro-Rata Percentage.   
    
  (d)  If in connection with a Change in Control the successor company, or a parent of the successor company, in the Change in Control does not agree to assume, replace, or substitute the PSUs granted hereunder (as of the consummation of such Change in Control) with PSUs on substantially identical terms, as determined by the Committee, then as of immediately prior to such Change in Control, the Company will determine the Total Award, calculated as the number (rounded down to the nearest whole PSU) equal to the product of (i) the Target Award plus any Dividend Equivalent PSUs and (ii) the Final Payout Percentage. 
    
  (e)  For purposes of this Agreement: 
    
           (i) 
       Final Payout Percentage    is a number, expressed as a percentage, equal to the sum of each Yearly Performance Percentage during the Performance Period, divided by 3;   provided  ,   however  , that if the Company s total shareholder return (   TSR   ) for the Performance Period is not positive, then the Final  

Payout Percentage shall not exceed 100% (the    TSR Cap      provided  ,   further  , that the TSR Cap shall not apply to any Participant whose employment terminates due to death or Disability prior to completion of the Performance Period or if a Change of Control occurs prior to the completion of the Performance Period.  
    
           (ii) 
       Payout Date    shall be:  
                
    September 20[XX] or as soon as administratively feasible (but not later than 60 days) thereafter if the Participant remains employed with the Company or its Affiliates until the end of the Performance Period;  
                
    September 20[XX] or as soon as administratively feasible (but not later than 60 days) thereafter if the Participant s employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates due to retirement after completion of the first Measurement Period in the Performance Period but prior to the end of the Performance Period;   provided     that   if the Participant subsequently dies or becomes Disabled during the Performance Period, the Payout Date shall be as soon as administratively feasible (but not later than 60 days) after the Participant s death or Disability;  
                
    as soon as administratively feasible (but not later than 60 days) after termination of employment if the Participant s employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates due to death or Disability after completion of the first Measurement Period in the Performance Period but prior to the end of the Performance Period, or if Appendix A applies; and 
                
    immediately prior to the Change in Control if Section 3(d) applies.  
       
           (iii) 
       Pro-Rata Percentage    is a number, expressed as a percentage, equal to the quotient of (i) the number of completed months from July 1, 20[XX] until the date of the Participant s termination of employment, divided by (ii) 36. 
       
           (iv) 
       Yearly Performance Percentage    is a number, expressed as a percentage, determined by the Company using straight line interpolation between the low and high of the Financial Metric range (whether a dollar or other value, or a growth percentage) for each Measurement Period, based upon the Company s actual performance with respect to such Financial Metric for such Measurement Period;   provided  , that if the Participant s employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates due to death or Disability after completion of the first Measurement Period in the Performance Period but prior to the end of the Performance Period, the Yearly Performance Percentage will be deemed to be 100% for each Measurement Period in the Performance Period not completed prior to the Participant s termination of employment;   provided  ,   further  , that if the Participant s employment with the Company and its Affiliates terminates due to retirement after completion of the first Measurement Period in the Performance Period and the Participant subsequently dies or becomes Disabled prior to completion of the Performance Period, the Yearly Performance Percentage will be deemed to be 100% for each Measurement Period in the Performance Period not completed prior to the Participant s death or Disability;   provided  ,   further  , that in the event of a Change in Control, then the Yearly Performance Percentage will be deemed to be 100% for each Measurement Period in the Performance Period not completed prior to such Change in Control. 
       
  (f)  All determinations with respect to the Award or this Agreement by the Company or Committee, including, without limitation, determinations of the Financial Metric amount for any Measurement Period, the Financial Metric growth relative to a prior period, TSR, Yearly Performance Percentage and Pro-Rata Percentage, and timing of settlements, shall be within the Company s absolute discretion and shall be final, binding and conclusive on the Participant.  
    
           4. 
    Restrictive Covenant Agreement; Clawback; Incorporation by Reference  . 
       
  (a)  Restrictive Covenant Agreement  .  For Participants whose home country is Australia, Canada or the United States, (x) this Award is conditioned upon the Participant s agreement to this Agreement and the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith and which includes, among other provisions, certain non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disclosure covenants and (y) if the Participant does not agree (whether electronically or otherwise) to this Agreement and the Restrictive Covenant Agreement within ninety (90) days from the date of this Award, this Award shall be terminable by the Company. 
    
  (b)  Clawback/Forfeiture  .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the PSUs may be forfeited without consideration if the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion  

(i) engages in an activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the interests of the Company or any Affiliate, including but not limited to fraud or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities, or (ii) without the consent of the Company, while employed by or providing services to the Company or any Affiliate or after termination of such employment or service, violates a non-competition, non-solicitation or non-disclosure covenant or agreement (including, if applicable, the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith) between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate.  If the Participant engages in any activity referred to in the preceding sentence, the Participant shall, at the sole discretion of the Committee, forfeit any gain realized in respect of the PSUs (which gain shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the Fair Market Value, on the applicable Payout Date, of the shares of Common Stock or cash delivered to the Participant under this Award), and repay such gain to the Company. 
    
  (c)  Incorporation by Reference, Etc  .  The provisions of the Plan are hereby incorporated herein by reference.  Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, this Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and any capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the definitions set forth in the Plan.  
    
           5. 
    Compliance with Legal Requirements  .  The granting and delivery of the Award, and any other obligations of the Company under this Agreement, shall be subject to all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals by any regulatory or governmental agency as may be required.   
       
           6. 
    Transferability  .  No PSUs may be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and any such purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate. 
       
           7. 
    Miscellaneous  . 
     (a)  Waiver  .  Any right of the Company contained in this Agreement may be waived in writing by the Committee.  No waiver of any right hereunder by any party shall operate as a waiver of any other right, or as a waiver of the same right with respect to any subsequent occasion for its exercise, or as a waiver of any right to damages.  No waiver by any party of any breach of this Agreement shall be held to constitute a waiver of any other breach or a waiver of the continuation of the same breach.  
    
  (b)  Severability  .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement and each other provision of this Agreement shall be severable and enforceable to the extent permitted by law.  
    
  (c)  No Right to Employment  .  For Participants whose home country is the United States, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as giving the Participant any right to be retained, in any position, as an employee, consultant or director of the Company or its Affiliates or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the right of the Company or its Affiliates, which are hereby expressly reserved, to remove, terminate or discharge the Participant with or without cause at any time for any reason whatsoever.  Although over the course of employment terms and conditions of employment may change, the at-will term of employment of such Participant will not change. 
    
  (d)  Successors  .  The terms of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, the Participant and the beneficiaries, executors, administrators, heirs and successors of the Participant.   
    
  (e)  Entire Agreement  .  This Agreement, the Plan and, if applicable, the Restrictive Covenant Agreement contain the entire agreement and understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter contained herein and supersede all prior communications, representations and negotiations in respect thereto; provided, however, that if the Participant s home country is Australia, Canada or the United States, the Participant understands that the Participant  may have an existing agreement(s) with the Company, through prior awards, acquisition of a prior employer or otherwise, that may include the same or similar covenants as those in the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith, and acknowledges that the Restrictive Covenant Agreement is meant to supplement any such agreement(s) such that the covenants in the agreements that provide the Company with the greatest protection enforceable under applicable law shall control, and that the parties do not intend to create any ambiguity or conflict through the execution of the Restrictive Covenant Agreement that would release the Participant from the obligations the Participant has assumed under the restrictive covenants in any of these  

agreements.  No change, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be valid unless the same be in writing and signed by the parties hereto, except for any changes permitted without consent of the Participant under the Plan. 
    
  (f)  Governing Law  .  This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to principles of conflicts of law thereof, or principles of conflicts of laws of any other jurisdiction which could cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware.  
    
  (g)  Headings  .  The headings of the Sections hereof are provided for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction, and shall not constitute a part, of this Agreement.      
    
  Participants whose home country is not the United States are subject to the additional terms and conditions set forth in Appendices B, C and D to this Agreement, as applicable to the Participant s country.  Participants whose home country is not the United States should review Appendices B, C and D to this Agreement carefully. 
    
  By accepting this Agreement through the online acceptance tool on Fidelity Stock Plan Services  website, the Participant agrees to all of the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan. 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 
    
  _____________________________________ 

APPENDIX A- SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS TO SECTIONS 2   3 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT 
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  If the Participant is, as of the date of the consummation of the     Change in Control, a Corporate Officer as appointed by the Board, the following provisions apply  : 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 3(a), if the Participant s employment with the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) is terminated within 24 months following a Change in Control either (x) by the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) without Cause (as defined in the Company s Change in Control Severance Plan for Corporate Officers, as amended (the    CIC Plan   )) or (y) by the Participant with Good Reason (as defined in the CIC Plan), then as soon as administratively feasible following such termination by the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto), the Company (or any successor thereto) will determine the Total Award, calculated as the number (rounded down to the nearest whole PSU) equal to the product of (i) the Target Award plus any Dividend Equivalent PSUs and (ii) the Final Payout Percentage.  
    
  In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the terms of the CIC Plan that would otherwise apply to the PSUs herein granted, the terms of this Agreement shall control.  For the avoidance of doubt: (1) the terms of Section 1.2 of the CIC Plan shall not apply to the PSUs granted under this Agreement, and (2) any acceleration of vesting of the PSUs herein granted shall be deemed to be accelerated under the terms of the CIC Plan for purposes of Section 1.3 of the CIC Plan. 

If the Participant is, as of the date of the consummation of the     Change in Control, a letter graded associate (but not a Corporate Officer as appointed by the Board), the following provision applies  : 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 3(a), if the Participant s employment with the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) is terminated within 12 months following a Change in Control by the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) without Cause, then as soon as administratively feasible following such termination by the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto), the Company (or any successor thereto) will determine the Total Award, calculated as the number (rounded down to the nearest whole PSU) equal to the product of (i) the Target Award plus any Dividend Equivalent PSUs and (ii) the Final Payout Percentage. 

APPENDIX B - SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR PARTICIPANTS  
  WHOSE HOME COUNTRY IS NOT THE UNITED STATES 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT 
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix B shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  For Participants whose home country is not the United States, this Appendix B includes special terms and conditions that are in addition to the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement: 
  1.    Compliance with Legal Requirements  .   
  The Participant understands that the Company is under no obligation to seek approval or clearance from any governmental authority for the grant of the PSUs and/or any payment pursuant to the Award.  Further, the Participant agrees that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Agreement without the Participant s consent to the extent necessary to comply with laws applicable to the PSUs. 
  2.      Responsibility for Taxes  .   
    
  (a)    The Participant acknowledges that, regardless of any action taken by the Company or, if different, the Participant s employer (the    Employer   ), the ultimate liability for all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to the Participant s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Participant or deemed by the Company or the Employer in its discretion to be an appropriate charge to the Participant even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer (   Tax-Related Items   ) is and remains the Participant s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Award, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or settlement of the Award; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Award to reduce or eliminate the Participant s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if the Participant is subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction, the Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
    
  (b)    Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, the Participant agrees, if requested by the Company, to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy their withholding obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (i) withholding from the Participant s wages or other cash compensation paid to Participant by the Company and/or the Employer; or (ii) withholding from the payment to be made to the Participant upon vesting or settlement, as the Company may determine, of the Award. The Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates.  
    
  (c)    The Participant agrees to pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Participant s participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to make a payment pursuant to this Agreement if the Participant fails to comply with Participant s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
    
  3.      Nature of the Award  .  In accepting the Award, the Participant acknowledges, understands and agrees that:  
    
  (a)    the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan; 
  (b)    the grant of the Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of PSUs, or benefits in lieu of PSUs, even if PSUs have been granted in the past;  
  (c)    all decisions with respect to future PSUs or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;  

(d)    the Award and the Participant s participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or be interpreted as forming an employment or services contract with the Employer, the Company or any Affiliate and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate the Participant s employment or service relationship (if any);  
  (e)    unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the Award, and the income and value of same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service the Participant may provide as a director of an Affiliate of the Company; 
  (f)    the Participant is voluntarily participating in the Plan;  
  (g)    the Award and any payment subject to the Award, and the income and value of same, are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;  
  (h)    the Award and any payment subject to the Award, and the income and value of same, are not part of normal or expected compensation for any purpose, including, without limitation, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or payments or welfare benefits or similar payments;  
  (i)    the future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
  (j)    no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Award resulting from the termination of the Participant s employment (for any reason whatsoever, and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the Award to which the Participant is otherwise not entitled, the Participant irrevocably agrees never to institute any claim against the Company,     the Employer or any Affiliate, waives his or her ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and releases the Company,     the Employer and any Affiliate     from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;  
  (k)    unless otherwise provided in the Plan, in this Agreement, or by the Company in its discretion, the Award and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Award or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the Common Stock; and  
    
  (l)    neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the Participant s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Award or of any amounts due to the Participant pursuant to the settlement of the Award.        
    
  4.       Miscellaneous  . 
           (a) 
    No Advice Regarding Grant  .  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The Participant is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
       
           (b) 
    Language  .  If the Participant has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Award and/or the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
       
           (c) 
    Electronic Delivery and Acceptance  .  The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means.  The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
       
           (d) 
    Foreign Asset/Account Reporting; Exchange Controls  .      The Participant s country may have certain foreign asset and/or account reporting requirements and/or exchange controls which may affect the Participant s ability to maintain cash received pursuant to an Award in a brokerage or bank account outside the Participant s country.  The Participant may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in  

his or her country.  The Participant also may be required to remit or repatriate funds received as a result of the Participant s participation in the Plan to his or her country through a designated bank or broker and/or within a certain time after receipt.  The Participant acknowledges that it is his or her responsibility to be compliant with such regulations, and the Participant should consult his or her personal legal advisor for any details. 
    
           (e) 
    Imposition of Other Requirements  .  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Participant s participation in the Plan, on the PSUs and on any payment received under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require the Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 

APPENDIX C--DATA PRIVACY PROVISIONS FOR PARTICIPANTS  
  WHOSE HOME COUNTRY IS NOT THE UNITED STATES 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix C shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
    
  Part 1  :  
    
  If the Participant works and/or resides in any of Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland or the United Kingdom, the following Data Privacy provision applies:    
    
  The Participant is hereby notified of the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant s personal data as described in this Agreement and any other Award materials by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its other Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan. 
    
    The Company and the Employer hold certain personal information about the Participant: the Participant s name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance, passport or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Awards or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant s favor ( Data ), for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant s participation in the Plan.  Providing Data for the purposes listed above is mandatory and denial thereof will prevent the Participant s participation in the Plan.   
    
  Data will be transferred to Fidelity Stock Plan Services, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  The recipients of the Data will be located in the United States or elsewhere, and the recipients  country (e.g., the United States) will have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant s country.  The Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative.  The Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, or require any necessary amendments to Data by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative.  The Participant may, at any time, contact his or her local human resources representative to enforce his or her privacy rights.  

Part 2  : 
    
  If the Participant works and/or resides in a country not listed above in Part 1, the following Data Privacy provision applies: 
    
  The Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant s personal data as described in this Agreement and any other Award materials by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its other Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan. 
    
    The Participant understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Participant, including, but not limited to, Participant s name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance, passport or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Awards or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant s favor ( Data ), for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant s participation in the Plan.   
    
  The Participant understands that Data will be transferred to Fidelity Stock Plan Services, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  The Participant understands that the recipients of the Data will be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients  country (e.g., the United States) will have different data privacy laws and protections than the  

Participant s country.  The Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative.  The Participant authorizes the Company, Fidelity Stock Plan Services and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan.  The Participant understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The Participant understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative.  Further, the Participant understands that he or she is providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If the Participant does not consent, or if the Participant later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her employment status or service with the Employer will not be affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing the Participant s consent is that the Company would not be able to grant Awards or other equity awards to the Participant or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, the Participant understands that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect the Participant s ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of the Participant s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative. 

APPENDIX D - SUPPLEMENT FOR AUSTRALIA, 
  CANADA, FRANCE   POLAND 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  PERFORMANCE STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix D shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  Terms and Conditions 
  This Appendix D includes special terms and conditions that govern the PSUs granted to the Participant if he or she works and/or resides in one of the countries listed herein.  Moreover, if the Participant relocates to one of the countries included in this Appendix D, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to the Participant, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons.  These terms and conditions are in addition to or, if so indicated, in replacement of the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement.   
  If the Participant is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Participant is currently residing and/or working, is considered a resident of another country for local law purposes or transfers employment and/or residency between countries after the Grant Date, the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to what extent the special terms and conditions included herein will apply to the Participant. 
  Notifications 
  This Appendix D also includes information of which the Participant should be aware with respect to the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The information is based on the laws in effect in the countries listed below as of September 2017.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently.  As a result, the information contained in this Appendix D may be out of date at the time the PSUs vest. 
  In addition, this supplement is general in nature and does not discuss all of the various laws, rules and regulations that may apply.  It may not apply to the Participant s particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure the Participant of any particular result.    Accordingly, the Participant is strongly advised to seek appropriate professional advice if he or she has any questions about his or her specific situation. 
  If the Participant is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Participant is currently residing and/or working, is considered a resident of another country for local law purposes or transfers employment and/or residency between countries after the Grant Date, the information contained herein may not be applicable in the same manner. 

AUSTRALIA 
    
  Terms and Conditions  
    
  Data Privacy. 
    
  This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
    
  The privacy policy of Automatic Data Processing Limited ABN 70 003 924 945 contains information about how the Participant can access and seek correction of the Participant s personal information, and how to make a complaint about a breach of applicable privacy laws. 

CANADA 
    
  Terms and Conditions  
    
  Termination of Employment.     
    
  This provision replaces Section 2(a) of the Agreement: 

Except as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion or as set forth in Section 2(b) or Appendix A, unvested PSUs shall be forfeited without consideration to the Participant upon the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or its Affiliates for any reason.  For purposes of the PSUs, the Participant s termination date shall occur (regardless of the reason for such termination, and whether or not found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed, or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (i) the termination of the Participant s employment relationship; (ii) the date the Participant receives written notice of termination; or (iii) the date the Participant is no longer actively employed regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice mandated under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law). 
    
  The following provisions will apply if the Participant is a resident of Quebec: 
  Language Consent. 
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English. 
  Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention [ Agreement ], ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciaires, ex cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s, directement ou indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise. 
  Data Privacy. 
  This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
  The Participant hereby authorizes the Company and the Company s representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  The Participant further authorizes the Company and any Affiliate and the administrator of the Plan to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.  The Participant further authorizes the Company and any Affiliate to record such information and to keep such information in the Participant s file. 
  Notifications 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information. 
  If the Participant is a Canadian resident, the Participant may be required to report his or her foreign property, any payment received under the Plan  and rights to receive such payment (e.g., the PSUs), on Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of the Participant s specified foreign property exceeds CAD100,000 at any time in the year.  Thus, PSUs must be reported - generally at a nil cost - if the CAD100,000 cost threshold is exceeded because other foreign property is held by the Participant.    The Participant should consult his or her personal tax advisor to ensure compliance with applicable reporting obligations. 
  FRANCE 
  Terms and Conditions 
  Language Acknowledgement. 
  En acceptant la convention [ Agreement ], vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. 
  By accepting the Agreement, the Participant confirms having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and the Agreement) which were provided in English. 
    
  POLAND 
    
  Terms and Conditions  
  Data Privacy. 

This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
  The Employer shall mean ADP Polska Sp. z o.o. 

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.34>
 4
 exhibit1034.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.34

Exhibit 

Non-Qualified 
  [DATE] 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION GRANT AGREEMENT 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. (the    Company   ), pursuant to the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (the    Plan   ), hereby irrevocably grants you (the    Participant   ), on [DATE] (the    Grant Date   ) the right and option to purchase shares of the Company s common stock, par value $0.10 per share (   Common Stock   ), subject to (1) the restrictions, terms and conditions herein, and (2) any special terms and conditions applicable to the Participant, as set forth in the appendices attached hereto (the    Appendices   ). 
  WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board of Directors of the Company (the    Board   ) has determined that it would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to grant the award of options provided for herein to the Participant, on the terms and conditions described in this Stock Option Grant Agreement (including the Appendices, the    Agreement   ). 
  NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the promises and the covenants of the parties contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, for themselves, and their permitted successors and assigns, hereby agree as follows: 
    
           1. 
    The option herein granted shall become exercisable in whole or in part as follows: 
       
           (a) 
    Exercisable as to   25%   of the shares (rounded down to the nearest whole share) on the   first anniversary   of the Grant Date. 
       
           (b) 
    Exercisable as to an additional   25%   of the shares (rounded down to the nearest whole share) on the   second anniversary   of the Grant Date.  
       
           (c) 
    Exercisable as to an additional   25%   of the shares (rounded down to the nearest whole share) on the   third anniversary   of the Grant Date. 
       
           (d) 
    Exercisable in its entirety on and after the   fourth anniversary   of the Grant Date; and 
       
           (e) 
    Exercisable in its entirety (  i  ) upon the death of the Participant, or (  ii  ) in the event of total and permanent disability of the Participant. 
       
           (f) 
    If the Participant retires from the Company at any time following the first anniversary of this Agreement and at such time satisfies the Normal Retirement Criteria, the option herein granted shall continue to become exercisable as set forth in clauses (b) through (d) of this Section 1.  The Normal Retirement Criteria will be satisfied if the Participant shall (  i  ) retire (  and satisfy the Company s criteria for retirement at such time  ) from the Company or any of its subsidiaries, divisions or business units, as the case may be, (  ii  ) be at least 55 years of age at the time of such retirement, and (  iii  ) have at least ten credited years of service with the Company or its subsidiaries at the time of such retirement. 
       
           (g) 
    If a Participant who at the time of retirement satisfies the Normal Retirement Criteria subsequently dies or becomes totally and permanently disabled before such Participant s option herein granted becomes exercisable in its entirety as set forth in clause (d) of this Section 1, the option herein granted shall become exercisable as set forth in clause (e) of this Section 1. 
       
           (h) 
    If a Participant who at the time of retirement satisfies the criteria set forth in Section 2(b)(iv) subsequently dies or becomes totally and permanently disabled before the expiration of 12 months after the retirement of the Participant, such Participant s option herein granted shall become exercisable as set forth in clause (e) of this Section 1. 
       
           (i) 
    Except as provided in clauses (f) through (h) of this Section 1 or Appendix A to this Agreement or as the Committee may otherwise determine in its sole discretion, no option herein granted shall become exercisable following termination of the Participant s employment from the Company or any of its subsidiaries (and no option herein granted shall become  

exercisable following the Company s sale of the subsidiary, or the Company s or a subsidiary s sale of the division or business unit, that employs such Participant). 
    
           (j) 
    Notwithstanding Appendix A to this Agreement, the option granted hereunder shall become exercisable in its entirety as of immediately prior to the consummation of a Change in Control, unless the successor company, or a parent of the successor company, in the Change in Control agrees to assume, replace, or substitute the option granted hereunder (as of the consummation of such Change in Control) with an option on substantially identical terms, as determined by the Committee. 
       
           2. 
    The unexercised portion of the option herein granted shall automatically and without notice terminate and become null and void at the time of the earliest of the following to occur: 
          
           (a) 
    the expiration of ten years from the date on which the option was granted; 
       
           (b) 
    the expiration of 60 days from the date of termination of the Participant s employment from the Company (including in connection with the sale of the subsidiary, division or business unit that employs such Participant) or any of its subsidiaries;   provided, however  , that  
       
           (  i  ) 
    if the Participant s employment from the Company or any of its subsidiaries terminates because of total and permanent disability, the provisions of sub-paragraph (c) shall apply, 
       
           (  ii  ) 
    if the Participant shall die during employment by the Company or any of its subsidiaries or during the 60-day period following the date of termination of such employment, the provisions of sub-paragraph (d) below shall apply, 
       
            (  iii  )  
    if the Participant shall retire and satisfy the Normal Retirement Criteria, the provisions of sub-paragraph (e) below shall apply, and 
       
           (iv) 
    if the Participant shall (  I  ) retire (  and satisfy the Company s criteria for retirement at such time  ) from the Company or any of its subsidiaries, divisions or business units, as the case may be, (  II  ) be at least 55 years of age at the time of such retirement, and (III) have at least five (but less than ten) credited years of service with the Company and its subsidiaries at the time of such retirement, the provisions of sub-paragraph (f) below shall apply; 
       
  for Participants whose home country is not the United States, for purposes of the option grant, the Participant s employment relationship will be considered terminated as of the date the Participant is no longer actively providing services to the Company or one of its Affiliates (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not such termination is later found invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), and unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, the Participant s right to vest in the option  under the Plan, if any, will terminate as of such date and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g.  , the Participant s period of service would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any); 
    
           (c) 
    if Section 2(b)(i) applies, (i) if the Participant satisfied the Normal Retirement Criteria at the time of the Participant s total and permanent disability, the expiration of 36 months after termination of the Participant s employment from the Company or any of its subsidiaries because of total and permanent disability, or (ii) if the Participant did not satisfy the Normal Retirement Criteria at the time of the Participant s total and permanent disability, the expiration of 12 months after termination of the Participant s employment from the Company or any of its subsidiaries because of total and permanent disability;   provided  ,   however  , that if the Participant shall die during the 36-month period specified in clause (i) of this Section 2(c) or the 12-month period specified in clause (ii) of this Section 2(c), as applicable, then the unexercised portion shall become null and void upon the expiration of 12 months after death of the Participant; 
       
           (d) 
    if Section 2(b)(ii) applies, (  i  ) if the Participant satisfied the Normal Retirement Criteria at the time of death, the expiration of 36 months after death of the Participant, or (  ii  ) if the Participant did not satisfy the Normal Retirement Criteria at the time of death, 12 months after death of the Participant; 
          
           (e) 
    if Section 2(b)(iii) applies, the expiration of 37 months after the retirement of the Participant;   provided  ,   however  , that if such Participant shall die during the 37 month period following the date of such Participant s retirement, then the  

unexercised portion shall become null and void on the later of (  i  ) the expiration of 37 months after the retirement of the Participant and (  ii  ) 12 months after death of the Participant; and 
       
           (f) 
    if Section 2(b)(iv) applies, the expiration of 12 months after the retirement of the Participant;   provided  ,   however  , that if such Participant shall die during the 12 month period following the date of such Participant s retirement, then the unexercised portion shall become null and void on the expiration of 12 months after death of the Participant. 
          
           3. 
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event that any unexercised portion of the option herein granted would terminate and become null and void in accordance with Section 2 and the Fair Market Value of the unexercised portion of the option herein granted exceeds the full price for each of the shares purchased pursuant to such option, the then vested portion of the option herein granted shall be deemed to be automatically exercised by the Participant on such last trading day by means of  a net exercise without any action by the Participant.  Upon such automatic exercise, the Company shall deliver to the Participant the number of shares of Common Stock for which the option was deemed exercised less the number of shares of Common Stock having a Fair Market Value, as of such date, sufficient to (1) pay the full price for each of the shares of Common Stock purchased pursuant to the option herein granted and (2) satisfy all applicable required tax withholding obligations.  Any fractional share shall be settled in cash.   For the avoidance of doubt, and notwithstanding any provision (or interpretation) of Section 2 to the contrary, the unexercised portion of the option herein granted shall automatically and without notice terminate and become null and void upon the expiration of ten years from the date of this Agreement. 
       
           4. 
    The full price for each of the shares purchased pursuant to the option herein granted shall be $  XX.XX  . 
       
           5. 
    Full payment for shares purchased by the Participant shall be made at the time of the exercise of the option in whole or in part. No shares shall be issued until full payment therefore has been made, and the Participant shall have none of the rights of a shareholder with respect to any shares subject to this option until such shares shall have been issued. 
       
           6. 
    No option granted hereunder may be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by a Participant other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and any such purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate. 
       
           7. 
    In the event of one or more stock splits, stock dividends, stock changes, reclassifications, recapitalizations or combinations of shares prior to complete exercise of the option herein granted which change the character or amount of the shares subject to the option, this option to the extent that it shall not have been exercised, shall entitle the Participant or the Participant s executors or administrators to receive in substitution such number and kind of shares as he, she or they would have been entitled to receive if the Participant or the Participant s executors or administrators had actually owned the shares subject to this option at the time of the occurrence of such change;   provided, however   that if the change is of such nature that the Participant or the Participant s executors or administrators, upon exercise of the option, would receive property other than shares of stock, then the Board shall adjust the option so that he, she or they shall acquire only shares of stock upon exercise, making such adjustment in the number and kind of shares to be received as the Board shall, in its sole judgment, deem equitable;   provided  ,   further  , that the foregoing shall not limit the Company s ability to otherwise adjust the option in a manner consistent with Section 12 of the Plan. 
       
           8. 
    For Participants whose home country is Australia, Canada or the United States, the option granted hereunder is conditioned upon the Participant s agreement to this Agreement and the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith within ninety (90) days from the date of this Agreement.  If the Participant s home country is not Australia, Canada or the United States, the effectiveness of the option granted hereunder is conditioned upon (i) the Participant having executed and delivered to the Company in connection with previous stock option grants a restrictive covenant, or (ii) the execution and delivery by the Participant within ninety (90) days from the date of this Agreement of the restrictive covenant separately provided by the Participant s local human resource department.  If the Company does not receive the signed (whether electronically or otherwise) restrictive covenant and this Agreement within such ninety-day period, this Agreement shall be terminable by the Company. 
       
           9. 
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the option granted hereunder may be terminated and become null and void without consideration if the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion (i) engages in an activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the interests of the Company or any Affiliate, including but not limited to fraud or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities, or (ii) without the consent of the Company, while employed by or providing services to the Company or any Affiliate or after termination of such employment or service, violates a non-competition, non-solicitation or non-disclosure covenant or agreement (including, if applicable, the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith) between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate.  If the Participant engages in any activity referred to in the preceding sentence, the Participant shall, at the sole discretion of the Committee,  

forfeit any gain realized in respect of the option granted hereunder (which gain shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the difference between the price for shares set forth in Section 4 above and the Fair Market Value (as defined in the Plan), on the applicable exercise date, of the shares of Common Stock for which the option was exercised), and repay such gain to the Company. 
    
           10. 
    The provisions of the Plan are hereby incorporated herein by reference.  Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, this Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and any capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the definitions set forth in the Plan.   
       
           11. 
    Any right of the Company contained in this Agreement may be waived in writing by the Committee.  No waiver of any right hereunder by any party shall operate as a waiver of any other right, or as a waiver of the same right with respect to any subsequent occasion for its exercise, or as a waiver of any right to damages.  No waiver by any party of any breach of this Agreement shall be held to constitute a waiver of any other breach or a waiver of the continuation of the same breach. 
       
           12. 
    The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and each other provision of this Agreement shall be severable and enforceable to the extent permitted by law.   
       
           13. 
    For Participants whose home country is the United States, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as giving the Participant any right to be retained, in any position, as an employee, consultant or director of the Company or its Affiliates or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the right of the Company or its Affiliates, which are hereby expressly reserved, to remove, terminate or discharge the Participant with or without cause at any time for any reason whatsoever.  Although over the course of employment terms and conditions of employment may change, the at-will term of employment of such Participant will not change. 
       
           14. 
    The terms of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, the Participant and the beneficiaries, executors, administrators, heirs and successors of the Participant. 
       
           15. 
    This Agreement, the Plan and, if applicable, the Restrictive Covenant Agreement contain the entire agreement and understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter contained herein and supersede all prior communications, representations and negotiations in respect thereto; provided, however, that if the Participant s home country is Australia, Canada or the United States, the Participant understands that the Participant may have an existing agreement(s) with the Company, through prior awards, acquisition of a prior employer or otherwise, that may include the same or similar covenants as those in the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith, and acknowledges that the Restrictive Covenant Agreement is meant to supplement any such agreement(s) such that the covenants in the agreements that provide the Company with the greatest protection enforceable under applicable law shall control, and that the parties do not intend to create any ambiguity or conflict through the execution of the Restrictive Covenant Agreement that would release the Participant from the obligations the Participant has assumed under the restrictive covenants in any of these agreements. No change, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be valid unless the same be in writing and signed by the parties hereto, except for any changes permitted without consent of the Participant under the Plan. 
       
           16. 
    This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to principles of conflicts of law thereof, or principles of conflicts of laws of any other jurisdiction which could cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware. 
       
  Participants whose home country is not the United States are subject to the additional terms and conditions set forth in Appendices B, C and D to this Agreement, as applicable to the Participant s country.  Participants whose home country is not the United States should review Appendices B, C and D to this Agreement carefully. 
    
  By accepting this Agreement through the online acceptance tool on Fidelity Stock Plan Services' website, the Participant agrees to all of the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan. 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 
    
  _____________________________________ 

APPENDIX A - SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS TO SECTIONS 1(a)-(e)   1(i) 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION GRANT AGREEMENT 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  If the Participant is, as of the date of the consummation of the     Change in Control, a Corporate Officer as appointed by the Board, the following provisions apply  : 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 1(a)-(e), if, within 24 months following a Change in Control, the Participant s employment with the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) is terminated either (x) by the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) without Cause (as defined in the Company s Change in Control Severance Plan for Corporate Officers, as amended (the    CIC Plan   )) or (y) by the Participant with Good Reason (as defined in the CIC Plan), the option granted hereunder shall become exercisable in its entirety as of the date of such termination.  
    
  In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the terms of the CIC Plan that would otherwise apply to the option herein granted, the terms of this Agreement shall control.  For the avoidance of doubt: (1) the terms of Section 1.2 of the CIC Plan shall not apply to the option granted under this Agreement, and (2) any acceleration of vesting of the option herein granted shall be deemed to be accelerated under the terms of the CIC Plan for purposes of Section 1.3 of the CIC Plan. 

If the Participant is, as of the date of the consummation of the     Change in Control, a letter graded associate (but not a Corporate Officer as appointed by the Board), the following provision applies  : 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 1(a)-(e), if, within 12 months following a Change in Control, the Participant s employment with the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) is terminated by the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) without Cause the option granted hereunder shall become exercisable in its entirety as of the date of such termination. 

APPENDIX B - SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR PARTICIPANTS  
  WHOSE HOME COUNTRY IS NOT THE UNITED STATES 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION GRANT AGREEMENT 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix B shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  For Participants whose home country is not the United States, this Appendix B includes special terms and conditions that are in addition to the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement  : 
  1.      Compliance with Legal Requirements  .  The Participant understands that the Company is under no obligation to seek approval or clearance from any governmental authority for the grant of the option and/or any payment pursuant to the option.  Further, the Participant agrees that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Agreement without the Participant s consent to the extent necessary to comply with laws applicable to the option. 
    
  2.      Responsibility for Taxes  .   
    
  (a)    The Participant acknowledges that, regardless of any action taken by the Company or, if different, the Participant s employer (the    Employer   ), the ultimate liability for all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to the Participant s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Participant or deemed by the Company or the Employer in its discretion to be an appropriate charge to the Participant even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer (   Tax-Related Items   ) is and remains the Participant s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the option, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or exercise of the option; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the option to reduce or eliminate the Participant s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if the Participant is subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction, the Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
    
  (b)    Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, the Participant agrees, if requested by the Company, to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items.  In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy their withholding obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (i) withholding from the Participant s wages or other cash compensation paid to Participant by the Company and/or the Employer; or (ii) withholding from proceeds of the sale of shares of Common Stock acquired at exercise of the option either through a voluntary sale or through a mandatory sale arranged by the Company (on the Participant s behalf pursuant to this authorization) without further consent; or (iii) withholding in shares of Common Stock to be issued at exercise of the option.  
  (c)    The Participant agrees to pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Participant s participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to make a payment pursuant to this Agreement if the Participant fails to comply with Participant s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
  3.      Nature of Option  .  In accepting the option, the Participant acknowledges, understands and agrees that:  
           a. 
    the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan; 
              b. 
    the grant of the option is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of options, or benefits in lieu of options, even if options have been granted in the past;  
              c. 
    all decisions with respect to future options or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;  
              d. 
    the option grant and the Participant s participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or be interpreted as forming an employment or services contract with the Employer, the Company or any Affiliate, and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate the Participant s employment or service relationship (if any);  
              e. 
    unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the option and the shares of Common Stock, and the income and value of same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service the Participant may provide as a director of an Affiliate of the Company; 

f. 
    the Participant is voluntarily participating in the Plan;  
              g. 
    the option and any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan, and the income and value of same, are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation; 
              h. 
    the option and any shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan and the income and value of same, are not part of normal or expected compensation for any purpose, including, without limitation, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or payments or welfare benefits or similar payments;  
              i. 
    the future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable, and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
              j. 
    if the underlying shares of Common Stock do not increase in value, the option will have no value;  
              k. 
    if the Participant exercises the option and acquires shares of Common Stock, the value of such Common Stock may increase or decrease in value, even below the option Exercise Price; 
              l. 
    no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the option resulting from the termination of the Participant s employment (for any reason whatsoever, and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the grant of the option to which the Participant is otherwise not entitled, the Participant irrevocably agrees never to institute any claim against the Company, the Employer or any Affiliate, waives his or her ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and releases the Company, the Employer and any Affiliate from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim; 
              m. 
    unless otherwise provided in the Plan, in this Agreement or by the Company in its discretion, the option and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the option or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the Common Stock; and 
              n. 
    neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the Participant s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the option or of any amounts due to the Participant pursuant to the exercise of the option or the subsequent sale of any shares of Common Stock acquired upon exercise. 
       
  4.       Miscellaneous  .  
    
           (a) 
    No Advice Regarding Grant  .  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Participant s participation in the Plan, or the Participant s acquisition or sale of the underlying shares of Common Stock.  The Participant is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
       
           (b) 
    Securities Laws  .  Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan or this Agreement, unless there is an available exemption from any registration, qualification or other legal requirement applicable to the shares of Common Stock, the Company shall not be required to deliver any shares issuable upon exercise of the option prior to the completion of any registration or qualification of the shares under any local, state, federal or foreign securities or exchange control law or under rulings or regulations of the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission or of any other governmental regulatory body, or prior to obtaining any approval or other clearance from any local, state, federal or foreign governmental agency, which registration, qualification or approval the Company shall, in its absolute discretion, deem necessary or advisable.  The Participant understands that the Company is under no obligation to register or qualify the shares with any state or foreign securities commission or to seek approval or clearance from any governmental authority for the issuance or sale of the shares.  Further, the Participant agrees that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Plan and the Agreement without the Participant s consent to the extent necessary to comply with securities or other laws applicable to issuance of shares. 
       
           (c) 
    Language  .  If the Participant has received this Agreement, or any other document related to the option and/or the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
       
           (d) 
    Electronic Delivery and Acceptance  .  The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means.  The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 

(e) 
    Foreign Asset/Account Reporting; Exchange Controls  .  The Participant s country may have certain foreign asset and/or account reporting requirements and/or exchange controls which may affect the Participant s ability to maintain cash or shares received pursuant to options in a brokerage or bank account outside the Participant s country.  The Participant may be required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in his or her country.  The Participant also may be required to remit or repatriate funds received as a result of the Participant s participation in the Plan to his or her country through a designated bank or broker and/or within a certain time after receipt.  The Participant acknowledges that it is his or her responsibility to be compliant with such regulations, and the Participant should consult his or her personal legal advisor for any details. 
       
           (f) 
    Imposition of Other Requirements  .  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Participant s participation in the Plan, on the option and on any shares of Common Stock purchased upon exercise of the option, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require the Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 

APPENDIX C - DATA PRIVACY PROVISIONS FOR PARTICIPANTS  
  WHOSE HOME COUNTRY IS NOT THE UNITED STATES 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION GRANT AGREEMENT 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix C shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
    
  Part 1:  
    
  If the Participant works and/or resides in any of Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland or the United Kingdom, the following Data Privacy provision applies:  
    
  The Participant is hereby notified of the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant s personal data as described in this Agreement and any other option materials by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its other Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan. 
    
    The Company and the Employer hold certain personal information about the Participant: the Participant s name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance, passport or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant s favor ( Data ), for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant s participation in the Plan.  Providing Data for the purposes listed above is mandatory and denial thereof will prevent the Participant s participation in the Plan. 
    
  Data will be transferred to Fidelity Stock Plan Services, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  The recipients of the Data will be located in the United States or elsewhere, and the recipients  country (e.g., the United States) will have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant s country.  The Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative.  The Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, or require any necessary amendments to Data by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative.  The Participant may, at any time, contact his or her local human resources representative to enforce his or her privacy rights. 
    
  Part 2: 
    
  If the Participant works and/or resides in a country not listed above in Part 1, the following Data Privacy provision applies: 
    
  The Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant s personal data as described in this Agreement and any other option materials by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its other Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan. 
    
    The Participant understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Participant, including, but not limited to, Participant s name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance, passport or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant s favor ( Data ), for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant s participation in the Plan.   
    
  The Participant understands that Data will be transferred to Fidelity Stock Plan Services, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  The Participant understands that the recipients of the Data will be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients  country (e.g., the United States) will have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant s country.  The Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any recipients  

of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative.  The Participant authorizes the Company, Fidelity Stock Plan Services and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan.  The Participant understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The Participant understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative.  Further, the Participant understands that he or she is providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If the Participant does not consent, or if the Participant later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her employment status or service with the Employer will not be affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing the Participant s consent is that the Company would not be able to grant options or other equity awards to the Participant or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, the Participant understands that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect the Participant s ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of the Participant s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative. 

APPENDIX D - SUPPLEMENT FOR AUSTRALIA, 
  CANADA   POLAND 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION GRANT AGREEMENT 
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix D shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  Terms and Conditions 
  This Appendix D includes special terms and conditions that govern the options granted to the Participant if he or she works and/or resides in one of the countries listed herein.  Moreover, if the Participant relocates to one of the countries included in this Appendix D, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to the Participant, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons.  These terms and conditions are in addition to or, if so indicated, in replacement of the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement.   
    
  If the Participant is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Participant is currently residing and/or working, is considered a resident of another country for local law purposes or transfers employment and/or residency between countries after the Grant Date, the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to what extent the special terms and conditions included herein will apply to the Participant. 
  Notifications 
  This Appendix D also includes information of which the Participant should be aware with respect to the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The information is based on the laws in effect in the countries listed below as of September 2017.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently.  As a result, the information contained in this Appendix D may be out of date at the time the Participant exercises the option or sells shares of Common Stock acquired under the Plan. 
  In addition, this supplement is general in nature and does not discuss all of the various laws, rules and regulations that may apply.  It may not apply to the Participant s particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure the Participant of any particular result.    Accordingly, the Participant is strongly advised to seek appropriate professional advice if he or she has any questions about his or her specific situation. 
  If the Participant is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Participant is currently residing and/or working, is considered a resident of another country for local law purposes or transfers employment and/or residency between countries after the Grant Date, the information contained herein may not be applicable in the same manner. 
    
  AUSTRALIA 
  Terms and Conditions  
    
  Data Privacy. 
  This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
  The privacy policy of Automatic Data Processing Limited ABN 70 003 924 945 contains information about how the Participant can access and seek correction of the Participant s personal information, and how to make a complaint about a breach of applicable privacy laws. 
  CANADA 
  Terms and Conditions  

Termination of Employment. 
    
  This provision replaces the second paragraph Section 2(b) of the Agreement:  
    
  For purposes of the option, the Participant's termination date shall occur (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed, or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (i) the termination of the Participant s employment relationship; (ii) the date the Participant receives written notice of termination; or (iii) the date the Participant is no longer actively employed regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice mandated under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law).  The Committee shall have the exclusive discretion to determine when the termination date occurs for purposes of the option and when the Participant is no longer actively employed for purposes of the option (including whether the Participant may still be considered to be providing services while on a leave of absence). 
  The following provisions will apply if the Participant is a resident of Quebec: 
  Language Consent. 
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English. 
  Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention [ Agreement ], ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciaires, ex cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s, directement ou indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise. 
  Data Privacy. 
  This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
  The Participant hereby authorizes the Company and the Company s representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  The Participant further authorizes the Company and any Affiliate and the administrator of the Plan to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.  The Participant further authorizes the Company and any Affiliate to record such information and to keep such information in the Participant s file. 
    
  Notifications  
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information. 
  Foreign property, including shares, options to purchase shares (i.e., options), and other rights to receive shares (e.g., restricted stock units) of a non-Canadian company held by a Canadian resident generally must be reported annually on a Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of his or her specified foreign property exceeds C$100,000 at any time during the year.  Thus, the options must be reported (generally at a nil cost) if the C$100,000 cost threshold is exceeded because the Participant holds other foreign property.  When shares of Common Stock are acquired, their cost generally is the adjusted cost base (   ACB   ) of the shares of Common Stock.  The ACB ordinarily is equal to the fair market value of the shares of Common Stock at the time of acquisition, but if the Participant owns other shares of Common Stock, this ACB may have to be averaged with the ACB of the other shares of Common Stock.    The Participant should consult his or her personal tax advisor to ensure compliance with the applicable reporting obligations. 
  POLAND 
    
  Terms and Conditions  
  Data Privacy. 
  This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
  The Employer shall mean ADP Polska Sp. z o.o. 

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 5
 exhibit1035.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.35

Exhibit 

AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. (the    Company   ), pursuant to the 2008 Omnibus Award Plan (the    Plan   ), hereby irrevocably grants you (the    Participant   ), on [DATE] (the    Grant Date   ), (x) if the Participant s home country is the United States, a Restricted Stock Award (the    Restricted Stock Award   ) of forfeitable shares of the Company s Common Stock, par value $0.10 per share (   Restricted Stock   ) or (y) if the Participant s home country is not the United States, a forfeitable Restricted Stock Unit Award (the    Restricted Unit Award   ), in each case, subject to (1) the restrictions, terms and conditions herein, and (2) any special terms and conditions applicable to the Participant, as set forth in the appendices attached hereto (the    Appendices   ). 
  WHEREAS, the Compensation Committee (the    Committee   ) of the Board of Directors of the Company (the    Board   ) has determined that it would be in the best interests of the Company and its stockholders to grant the award provided for herein to the Participant, on the terms and conditions described in this Restricted Stock and Restricted Stock Unit Award Agreement (including the Appendices, the    Agreement   ). 
  NOW, THEREFORE, for and in consideration of the promises and the covenants of the parties contained in this Agreement, and for other good and valuable consideration, the receipt and sufficiency of which is hereby acknowledged, the parties hereto, for themselves, and their permitted successors and assigns, hereby agree as follows: 
           1. 
    Terms and Conditions  . 
       
  (a)  Vesting  .  Subject to the other terms and conditions contained in this Agreement, the Restricted Period with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, shall lapse on the second anniversary of the Grant Date, subject to any special terms and conditions applicable to the Participant, as set forth in Appendix A to this Agreement.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, the Restricted Period with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, shall lapse as of immediately prior to the consummation of a Change in Control, unless the successor company, or a parent of the successor company, in the Change in Control agrees to assume, replace, or substitute the Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, granted hereunder (as of the consummation of such Change in Control) with shares of restricted stock or restricted units, as applicable, on substantially identical terms, as determined by the Committee.  
    
  (b)  Book Entry or Payment  . 
    
           (i) 
    Book Entry  .  For Participants whose home country is the United States, upon the grant of Restricted Stock, the Committee shall cause share(s) of Common Stock to be registered in the name of the Participant and held in book-entry form subject to the Company s directions. 
              (ii) 
    Payment  .  For Participants whose home country is not the United States, (x) the Company shall settle as soon as administratively possible after the vesting date, any vested Restricted Unit Award by the payment to the Participant in cash (without interest) of an amount equal to the Participant s Restricted Unit Award, subject to applicable Tax-Related Items (as defined in Appendix B to this Agreement) and (y) at no time shall the Participant be deemed for any purpose to be the owner of shares of Common Stock in connection with a Restricted Unit Award and the Participant shall have no right to dividends or dividend equivalent payments in respect of the Restricted Unit Award. 
       
  (c)  Forfeiture  .  Except as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion or as set forth in Section 1(a), unvested Restricted Stock or unvested Restricted Unit Awards, as applicable, shall be forfeited without consideration to the Participant upon the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or its Affiliates for any reason.  For Participants whose home country is not the United States, for purposes of the Restricted Unit Award, the Participant s employment relationship will be considered terminated as of the date the Participant is no longer actively providing services to the Company or one of its Affiliates (regardless of the reason for such termination and whether or not such termination is later found invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed, or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), and unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement or determined by the Company, the Participant s right to vest in the Restricted Unit Awards under the Plan, if any, will terminate as of such date and will not be extended by any notice period (  e.g.  , the Participant s period of service would not include any contractual notice period or any period of  garden leave  or similar period mandated under employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any). 
    
           2. 
    Restrictive Covenant Agreement; Clawback; Incorporation by Reference  . 

(a)  Restrictive Covenant Agreement  .  For Participants whose home country is Australia, Canada or the United States, this Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, is conditioned upon the Participant s agreement to this Agreement and the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith and which includes, among other provisions, certain non-competition, non-solicitation and non-disclosure covenants. If such Participant does not agree (whether electronically or otherwise) to this Agreement and the Restrictive Covenant Agreement within ninety (90) days from the date of the Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, the Restricted Stock Award or Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, shall be terminable by the Company. 
    
  (b)  Clawback/Forfeiture  .  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, may be forfeited without consideration if the Participant, as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion (i) engages in an activity that is in conflict with or adverse to the interests of the Company or any Affiliate, including but not limited to fraud or conduct contributing to any financial restatements or irregularities, or (ii) without the consent of the Company, while employed by or providing services to the Company or any Affiliate or after termination of such employment or service, violates a non-competition, non-solicitation or non-disclosure covenant or agreement (including, if applicable, the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith) between the Participant and the Company or any Affiliate.  If the Participant engages in any activity referred to in the preceding sentence, the Participant shall, at the sole discretion of the Committee, (x) if the Participant s home country is the United States, forfeit any gain realized in respect of the Restricted Stock (which gain shall be deemed to be an amount equal to the Fair Market Value, on the applicable vesting date, of the shares of Common Stock delivered to the Participant), and repay such gain to the Company or (y) if the Participant s home country is not the United States, forfeit the amount paid in respect of the Restricted Unit Award, and repay such amount to the Company. 
    
  (c)  Incorporation by Reference, Etc  .  The provisions of the Plan are hereby incorporated herein by reference.  Except as otherwise expressly set forth herein, this Agreement shall be construed in accordance with the provisions of the Plan and any capitalized terms not otherwise defined in this Agreement shall have the definitions set forth in the Plan. 
    
  3.  Compliance with Legal Requirements  .  The granting and delivery of the Restricted Stock Award or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, and any other obligations of the Company under this Agreement, shall be subject to all applicable federal, state, local and foreign laws, rules and regulations and to such approvals by any regulatory or governmental agency as may be required.   
    
  4.  Transferability  .  No Restricted Unit Award or share of Restricted Stock may be assigned, alienated, pledged, attached, sold or otherwise transferred or encumbered by the Participant (with respect to Restricted Stock, until it has vested in accordance with Section 1) other than by will or by the laws of descent and distribution and any such purported assignment, alienation, pledge, attachment, sale, transfer or encumbrance shall be void and unenforceable against the Company or any Affiliate. 
    
  5.  Miscellaneous  . 
    
  (a)  Waiver  .  Any right of the Company contained in this Agreement may be waived in writing by the Committee.  No waiver of any right hereunder by any party shall operate as a waiver of any other right, or as a waiver of the same right with respect to any subsequent occasion for its exercise, or as a waiver of any right to damages.  No waiver by any party of any breach of this Agreement shall be held to constitute a waiver of any other breach or a waiver of the continuation of the same breach.  
    
  (b)  Severability  .  The invalidity or unenforceability of any provision of this Agreement shall not affect the validity or enforceability of any other provision of this Agreement, and each other provision of this Agreement shall be severable and enforceable to the extent permitted by law.  
    
  (c)  No Right to Employment  .  For Participants whose home country is the United States, nothing contained in this Agreement shall be construed as giving the Participant any right to be retained, in any position, as an employee, consultant or director of the Company or its Affiliates or shall interfere with or restrict in any way the right of the Company or its Affiliates, which are hereby expressly reserved, to remove, terminate or discharge the Participant with or without cause at any time for any reason whatsoever.  Although over the course of employment terms and conditions of employment may change, the at-will term of employment of such Participant will not change. 
    
  (d)  Successors  .  The terms of this Agreement shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of the Company, its successors and assigns, the Participant and the beneficiaries, executors, administrators, heirs and successors of the Participant.   
    
  (e)  Entire Agreement  .  This Agreement, the Plan and, if applicable, the Restrictive Covenant Agreement contain the entire agreement and understanding of the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter contained herein and supersede all prior communications, representations and negotiations in respect thereto; provided, however, that if the Participant s home country  

is Australia, Canada or the United States, the Participant understands that the Participant may have an existing agreement(s) with the Company, through prior awards, acquisition of a prior employer or otherwise, that may include the same or similar covenants as those in the Restrictive Covenant Agreement furnished herewith, and acknowledges that the Restrictive Covenant Agreement is meant to supplement any such agreement(s) such that the covenants in the agreements that provide the Company with the greatest protection enforceable under applicable law shall control, and that the parties do not intend to create any ambiguity or conflict through the execution of the Restrictive Covenant Agreement that would release the Participant from the obligations the Participant has assumed under the restrictive covenants in any of these agreements.  No change, modification or waiver of any provision of this Agreement shall be valid unless the same be in writing and signed by the parties hereto, except for any changes permitted without consent of the Participant under the Plan. 
    
  (f)  Governing Law  .  This Agreement shall be construed and interpreted in accordance with the laws of the State of Delaware without regard to principles of conflicts of law thereof, or principles of conflicts of laws of any other jurisdiction which could cause the application of the laws of any jurisdiction other than the State of Delaware.  
    
  (g)  Headings  .  The headings of the Sections hereof are provided for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction, and shall not constitute a part, of this Agreement.  
    
  Participants whose home country is not the United States are subject to the additional terms and conditions set forth in Appendices B, C and D to this Agreement, as applicable to the Participant s country.  Participants whose home country is not the United States should review Appendices B, C and D to this Agreement carefully. 
    
  By accepting this Agreement through the online acceptance tool on Fidelity Stock Plan Services  website, the Participant agrees to all of the terms and conditions in this Agreement and the Plan.   

AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 
    
  _____________________________________ 

APPENDIX A - SUPPLEMENTAL PROVISIONS TO SECTION 1(a) 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT  
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix A shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
    
  If the Participant is, as of the date of the consummation of the     Change in Control, a Corporate Officer as appointed by the Board, the following provisions apply  : 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 1(a), if the Participant s employment with the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) is terminated within 24 months following a Change in Control either (x) by the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) without Cause (as defined in the Company s Change in Control Severance Plan for Corporate Officers, as amended (the    CIC Plan   )) or (y) by the Participant with Good Reason (as defined in the CIC Plan), the Restricted Period with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, shall lapse as of the date of such termination.  
    
  In the event of any inconsistency between this Agreement and the terms of the CIC Plan that would otherwise apply to the Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, herein granted, the terms of this Agreement shall control.  For the avoidance of doubt: (1) the terms of Section 1.2 of the CIC Plan shall not apply to the Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, granted under this Agreement, and (2) any acceleration of vesting of the Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, herein granted shall be deemed to be accelerated under the terms of the CIC Plan for purposes of Section 1.3 of the CIC Plan. 

If the Participant is, as of the date of the consummation of the     Change in Control, a letter graded associate (but not a Corporate Officer as appointed by the Board), the following provision applies  : 
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in Section 1(a), if the Participant s employment with the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) is terminated within 12 months following a Change in Control by the Company or its Affiliates (or any successor thereto) without Cause, the Restricted Period with respect to the shares of Restricted Stock or the Restricted Unit Award, as applicable, shall lapse as of the date of such termination. 

APPENDIX B - SPECIAL PROVISIONS FOR PARTICIPANTS  
  WHOSE HOME COUNTRY IS NOT THE UNITED STATES 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT  
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix B shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  For Participants whose home country is not the United States, this Appendix B includes special terms and conditions that are in addition to the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement: 
  1.      Compliance with Legal Requirements  .  The Participant understands that the Company is under no obligation to seek approval or clearance from any governmental authority for the grant of the Restricted Unit Award and/or any payment pursuant to the Restricted Unit Award.  Further, the Participant agrees that the Company shall have unilateral authority to amend the Agreement without the Participant s consent to the extent necessary to comply with laws applicable to the Restricted Unit Award. 
    
  2.      Responsibility for Taxes  .   
    
  (a)    The Participant acknowledges that, regardless of any action taken by the Company or, if different, the Participant s employer (the    Employer   ), the ultimate liability for all income tax, social insurance, payroll tax, fringe benefits tax, payment on account or other tax-related items related to the Participant s participation in the Plan and legally applicable to the Participant or deemed by the Company or the Employer in its discretion to be an appropriate charge to the Participant even if legally applicable to the Company or the Employer (   Tax-Related Items   ) is and remains the Participant s responsibility and may exceed the amount actually withheld by the Company or the Employer.  The Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (1) make no representations or undertakings regarding the treatment of any Tax-Related Items in connection with any aspect of the Restricted Unit Award, including, but not limited to, the grant, vesting or settlement of the Restricted Unit Award; and (2) do not commit to and are under no obligation to structure the terms of the grant or any aspect of the Restricted Unit Award to reduce or eliminate the Participant s liability for Tax-Related Items or achieve any particular tax result.  Further, if the Participant is subject to Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction, the Participant acknowledges that the Company and/or the Employer (or former employer, as applicable) may be required to withhold or account for Tax-Related Items in more than one jurisdiction. 
  (b)    Prior to any relevant taxable or tax withholding event, the Participant agrees, if requested by the Company, to make adequate arrangements satisfactory to the Company and/or the Employer to satisfy all Tax-Related Items. In furtherance and not in limitation of the foregoing, the Participant authorizes the Company and/or the Employer, or their respective agents, at their discretion, to satisfy their withholding obligations with regard to all Tax-Related Items by one or a combination of the following: (i) withholding from the Participant s wages or other cash compensation paid to Participant by the Company and/or the Employer; or (ii) withholding from the payment to be made to the Participant upon vesting or settlement, as the Company may determine, of the Restricted Unit Award. The Company may withhold or account for Tax-Related Items by considering applicable minimum statutory withholding rates or other applicable withholding rates, including maximum applicable rates.  
  (c)    The Participant agrees to pay to the Company or the Employer any amount of Tax-Related Items that the Company or the Employer may be required to withhold or account for as a result of the Participant s participation in the Plan that cannot be satisfied by the means previously described.  The Company may refuse to make a payment pursuant to this Agreement if the Participant fails to comply with Participant s obligations in connection with the Tax-Related Items. 
  3.      Nature of Restricted Unit Award  .  In accepting the Restricted Unit Award, the Participant acknowledges, understands and agrees that:    
  (a)    the Plan is established voluntarily by the Company, it is discretionary in nature and it may be modified, amended, suspended or terminated by the Company at any time, to the extent permitted by the Plan; 
  (b)    the grant of the Restricted Unit Award is voluntary and occasional and does not create any contractual or other right to receive future grants of Restricted Unit Awards, or benefits in lieu of Restricted Unit Awards, even if Restricted Unit Awards have been granted in the past;  
  (c)    all decisions with respect to future Restricted Unit Awards or other grants, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Company;  

(d)    the Restricted Unit Award and the Participant s participation in the Plan shall not create a right to employment or be interpreted as forming an employment or services contract with the Employer, the Company or any Affiliate and shall not interfere with the ability of the Employer to terminate the Participant s employment or service relationship (if any);  
  (e)    unless otherwise agreed with the Company, the Restricted Unit Award, and the income and value of same, are not granted as consideration for, or in connection with, the service the Participant may provide as a director of an Affiliate of the Company; 
  (f)    the Participant is voluntarily participating in the Plan;  
  (g)    the Restricted Unit Award and any payment subject to the Restricted Unit Award, and the income and value of same, are not intended to replace any pension rights or compensation;  
  (h)    the Restricted Unit Award and any payment subject to the Restricted Unit Award, and the income and value of same, are not part of normal or expected compensation for any purpose, including, without limitation, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, redundancy, dismissal, end-of-service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or payments or welfare benefits or similar payments;  
  (i)    the future value of the underlying shares of Common Stock is unknown, indeterminable and cannot be predicted with certainty;  
  (j)    no claim or entitlement to compensation or damages shall arise from forfeiture of the Restricted Unit Award resulting from the termination of the Participant s employment (for any reason whatsoever, and whether or not later found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), and in consideration of the Restricted Unit Award to which the Participant is otherwise not entitled, the Participant irrevocably agrees never to institute any claim against the Company,     the Employer or any Affiliate, waives his or her ability, if any, to bring any such claim, and releases the Company,     the Employer and any Affiliate     from any such claim; if, notwithstanding the foregoing, any such claim is allowed by a court of competent jurisdiction, then, by participating in the Plan, the Participant shall be deemed irrevocably to have agreed not to pursue such claim and agrees to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal of such claim;  
  (k)    unless otherwise provided in the Plan, in this Agreement, or by the Company in its discretion, the Restricted Unit Award and the benefits evidenced by this Agreement do not create any entitlement to have the Restricted Unit Award or any such benefits transferred to, or assumed by, another company nor to be exchanged, cashed out or substituted for, in connection with any corporate transaction affecting the Common Stock; and  
    
  (l)    neither the Company, the Employer nor any Affiliate shall be liable for any foreign exchange rate fluctuation between the Participant s local currency and the United States Dollar that may affect the value of the Restricted Unit Award or of any amounts due to the Participant pursuant to the settlement of the Restricted Unit Award.        
    
  4.    Miscellaneous 
    
  (a)      No Advice Regarding Grant  .  The Company is not providing any tax, legal or financial advice, nor is the Company making any recommendations regarding the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The Participant is hereby advised to consult with his or her own personal tax, legal and financial advisors regarding his or her participation in the Plan before taking any action related to the Plan. 
    
  (b)      Language  .  If the Participant has received this Agreement or any other document related to the Restricted Unit Award and/or the Plan translated into a language other than English and if the meaning of the translated version is different than the English version, the English version will control. 
      
  (c)       Electronic Delivery and Acceptance  .  The Company may, in its sole discretion, decide to deliver any documents related to current or future participation in the Plan by electronic means.  The Participant hereby consents to receive such documents by electronic delivery and agrees to participate in the Plan through an on-line or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company. 
      
  (d)      Foreign Asset/Account Reporting; Exchange Controls  .  The Participant s country may have certain foreign asset and/or account reporting requirements and/or exchange controls which may affect the Participant s ability to maintain cash received pursuant to a Restricted Unit Award in a brokerage or bank account outside the Participant s country.  The Participant may be  

required to report such accounts, assets or transactions to the tax or other authorities in his or her country.  The Participant also may be required to remit or repatriate funds received as a result of the Participant s participation in the Plan to his or her country through a designated bank or broker and/or within a certain time after receipt.  The Participant acknowledges that it is his or her responsibility to be compliant with such regulations, and the Participant should consult his or her personal legal advisor for any details. 
    
  (e)      Imposition of Other Requirements  .  The Company reserves the right to impose other requirements on the Participant s participation in the Plan, on the Restricted Unit Awards and on any payment received under the Plan, to the extent the Company determines it is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons, and to require the Participant to sign any additional agreements or undertakings that may be necessary to accomplish the foregoing. 

APPENDIX C - DATA PRIVACY PROVISIONS FOR PARTICIPANTS  
  WHOSE HOME COUNTRY IS NOT THE UNITED STATES 

AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT  
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix C shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  Part 1:  
  If the Participant works and/or resides in any of Belgium, the Czech Republic, Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Poland, Portugal, Romania, Slovakia, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland or the United Kingdom, the following Data Privacy provision applies:  
  The Participant is hereby notified of the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant s personal data as described in this Agreement and any other Restricted Unit Award materials by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its other Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan. 
    
    The Company and the Employer hold certain personal information about the Participant: the Participant s name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance, passport or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Unit Awards or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant s favor ( Data ), for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant s participation in the Plan.  Providing Data for the purposes listed above is mandatory and denial thereof will prevent the Participant s participation in the Plan. 
    
    Data will be transferred to Fidelity Stock Plan Services, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  The recipients of the Data will be located in the United States or elsewhere, and the recipients  country (e.g., the United States) will have different data privacy laws and protections than the Participant s country.  The Participant may request a list with the names and addresses of any recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative.  The Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The Participant may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, or require any necessary amendments to Data by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative.  The Participant may, at any time, contact his or her local human resources representative to enforce his or her privacy rights.   
    
  Part 2: 
  If the Participant works and/or resides in a country not listed above in Part 1, the following Data Privacy provision applies: 
  The Participant hereby explicitly and unambiguously consents to the collection, use and transfer, in electronic or other form, of the Participant s personal data as described in this Agreement and any other Restricted Unit Award materials by and among, as applicable, the Employer, the Company and its other Affiliates for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing Participant s participation in the Plan. 
    
    The Participant understands that the Company and the Employer may hold certain personal information about Participant, including, but not limited to, Participant s name, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, social insurance, passport or other identification number (e.g., resident registration number), salary, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company, details of all Restricted Unit Awards or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in the Participant s favor ( Data ), for the exclusive purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Participant s participation in the Plan.   
    
    The Participant understands that Data will be transferred to Fidelity Stock Plan Services, or such other stock plan service provider as may be selected by the Company in the future, which is assisting the Company with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  The Participant understands that the recipients of the Data will be located in the United States or elsewhere, and that the recipients  country (e.g., the United States) will have different data privacy laws and protections than the  

Participant s country.  The Participant understands that he or she may request a list with the names and addresses of any recipients of the Data by contacting his or her local human resources representative.  The Participant authorizes the Company, Fidelity Stock Plan Services and any other possible recipients which may assist the Company (presently or in the future) with implementing, administering and managing the Plan to receive, possess, use, retain and transfer the Data, in electronic or other form, for the sole purpose of implementing, administering and managing his or her participation in the Plan.  The Participant understands that Data will be held only as long as is necessary to implement, administer and manage the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The Participant understands that he or she may, at any time, view Data, request additional information about the storage and processing of Data, require any necessary amendments to Data or refuse or withdraw the consents herein, in any case without cost, by contacting in writing his or her local human resources representative.  Further, the Participant understands that he or she is providing the consents herein on a purely voluntary basis.  If the Participant does not consent, or if the Participant later seeks to revoke his or her consent, his or her employment status or service with the Employer will not be affected; the only consequence of refusing or withdrawing the Participant s consent is that the Company would not be able to grant Restricted Unit Awards or other equity awards to the Participant or administer or maintain such awards.  Therefore, the Participant understands that refusing or withdrawing his or her consent may affect the Participant s ability to participate in the Plan.  For more information on the consequences of the Participant s refusal to consent or withdrawal of consent, the Participant understands that he or she may contact his or her local human resources representative. 

APPENDIX D - SUPPLEMENT FOR AUSTRALIA,  
  CANADA, FRANCE   POLAND 
    
  AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING, INC. 2008 OMNIBUS AWARD PLAN 
  RESTRICTED STOCK AND RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD AGREEMENT  
    
  Capitalized terms used but not defined in this Appendix D shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in the Agreement, or in the Plan, as applicable.   
  Terms and Conditions 
  This Appendix D includes special terms and conditions that govern the Restricted Unit Award granted to the Participant if he or she works and/or resides in one of the countries listed herein.  Moreover, if the Participant relocates to one of the countries included in this Appendix D, the special terms and conditions for such country will apply to the Participant, to the extent the Company determines that the application of such terms and conditions is necessary or advisable for legal or administrative reasons.  These terms and conditions are in addition to or, if so indicated, in replacement of the terms and conditions set forth in the Agreement.   
  If the Participant is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Participant is currently residing and/or working, is considered a resident of another country for local law purposes or transfers employment and/or residency between countries after the Grant Date, the Company shall, in its sole discretion, determine to what extent the special terms and conditions included herein will apply to the Participant. 
  Notifications 
  This Appendix D also includes information of which the Participant should be aware with respect to the Participant s participation in the Plan.  The information is based on the laws in effect in the countries listed below as of September 2017.  Such laws are often complex and change frequently.  As a result, the information contained in this Appendix D may be out of date at the time the Restricted Unit Awards vest. 
  In addition, this supplement is general in nature and does not discuss all of the various laws, rules and regulations that may apply.  It may not apply to the Participant s particular situation, and the Company is not in a position to assure the Participant of any particular result.    Accordingly, the Participant is strongly advised to seek appropriate professional advice if he or she has any questions about his or her specific situation. 
  If the Participant is a citizen or resident of a country other than the one in which the Participant is currently residing and/or working, is considered a resident of another country for local law purposes or transfers employment and/or residency between countries after the Grant Date, the information contained herein may not be applicable in the same manner. 
    
  AUSTRALIA 
  Terms and Conditions  
    
  Data Privacy. 
  This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
  The privacy policy of Automatic Data Processing Limited ABN 70 003 924 945 contains information about how the Participant can access and seek correction of the Participant s personal information, and how to make a complaint about a breach of applicable privacy laws. 
            
    CANADA 
       
  Terms and Conditions  
    
  Termination of Employment.     
    
  This provision replaces Section 1(c) of the Agreement: 

Except as otherwise determined by the Committee in its sole discretion or as set forth in Section 1(a), unvested Restricted Unit Awards shall be forfeited without consideration to the Participant upon the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or its Affiliates for any reason.  For purposes of the Restricted Unit Award, the Participant s termination date shall occur (regardless of the reason for such termination, and whether or not found to be invalid or in breach of employment laws in the jurisdiction where the Participant is employed, or the terms of the Participant s employment agreement, if any), effective as of the date that is the earlier of: (i) the termination of the Participant s employment relationship; (ii) the date the Participant receives written notice of termination; or (iii) the date the Participant is no longer actively employed regardless of any notice period or period of pay in lieu of such notice mandated under applicable laws (including, but not limited to statutory law, regulatory law and/or common law). 
    
  The following provisions will apply if the Participant is a resident of Quebec: 
  Language Consent. 
  The parties acknowledge that it is their express wish that the Agreement, as well as all documents, notices and legal proceedings entered into, given or instituted pursuant hereto or relating directly or indirectly hereto, be drawn up in English. 
  Les parties reconnaissent avoir express ment souhait  que la convention [ Agreement ], ainsi que tous les documents, avis et proc dures judiciaires, ex cut s, donn s ou intent s en vertu de, ou li s, directement ou indirectement   la pr sente convention, soient r dig s en langue anglaise. 
  Data Privacy. 
  This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
  The Participant hereby authorizes the Company and the Company s representatives to discuss with and obtain all relevant information from all personnel, professional or not, involved in the administration and operation of the Plan.  The Participant further authorizes the Company and any Affiliate and the administrator of the Plan to disclose and discuss the Plan with their advisors.  The Participant further authorizes the Company and any Affiliate to record such information and to keep such information in the Participant s file. 
  Notifications 
  Foreign Asset/Account Reporting Information. 
  If the Participant is a Canadian resident, the Participant may be required to report his or her foreign property, any payment received under the Plan and rights to receive such payment (  e.g.  ,     the Restricted Unit Award), on Form T1135 (Foreign Income Verification Statement) if the total cost of the Participant s specified foreign property exceeds CAD100,000 at any time in the year.  Thus, Restricted Unit Awards must be reported - generally at a nil cost - if the CAD100,000 cost threshold is exceeded because other foreign property is held by the Participant.    The Participant should consult his or her personal tax advisor to ensure compliance with applicable reporting obligations. 
  FRANCE 
  Terms and Conditions 
  Language Acknowledgement. 
  En acceptant la convention [ Agreement ], vous confirmez ainsi avoir lu et compris les documents relatifs   cette attribution (le Plan et ce Contrat d Attribution) qui vous ont  t  communiqu s en langue anglaise. 
  By accepting the Agreement, the Participant confirms having read and understood the documents relating to this grant (the Plan and the Agreement) which were provided in English. 
  POLAND 
    
  Terms and Conditions  
  Data Privacy. 

This provision supplements the applicable provisions of Appendix C: 
  The Employer shall mean ADP Polska Sp. z o.o. 

</EX-10.35>

<EX-23>
 6
 exhibit23q4fy17.htm
 EXHIBIT 23

Exhibit 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos.   33-46168, 333-10281, 333-10277, 333-110393, 333-147377, 333-155382, 333-169110, and 333-170506   on Form S-8  , and   Registration Statement No.   333-206631   on Form S-3 of our reports dated August 4, 2017, relating to the consolidated financial statements and consolidated financial statement schedule of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ), and the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting appearing in the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. for the year ended June 30, 2017.  
    
               /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 

Parsippany, New Jersey 
    August 4, 2017    

</EX-23>

<EX-31.1>
 7
 exhibit311ceoq4fy17.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.1 
    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  I, Carlos A. Rodriguez, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Automatic Data Processing, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting.  
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    August 4, 2017 
    /s/ Carlos A. Rodriguez 

Carlos A. Rodriguez 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 8
 exhibit312cfoq4fy17.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.2 
    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
    
  I, Jan Siegmund, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Automatic Data Processing, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              (a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              (b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
              (c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              (d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              (a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              (b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    August 4, 2017 
    /s/ Jan Siegmund 

Jan Siegmund 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 9
 exhibit321ceoq4fy17.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER 
    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
    
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
    
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
    
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Carlos A. Rodriguez, President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
       
           (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company. 

Date: 
    August 4, 2017 
    /s/ Carlos A. Rodriguez 

Carlos A. Rodriguez 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-32.2>
 10
 exhibit322cfoq4fy17.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.2

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.2 
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
    
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO 
    
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
    
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
    
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 

In connection with the Annual Report of Automatic Data Processing, Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ending June 30, 2017 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), I, Jan Siegmund, Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that: 
    
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
       
           (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and result of operations of the Company. 

Date: 
    August 4, 2017 
    /s/ Jan Siegmund 

Jan Siegmund 

Chief Financial Officer 

</EX-32.2>

<EX-101.INS>
 11
 adp-20170630.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 12
 adp-20170630.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 13
 adp-20170630_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 14
 adp-20170630_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 15
 adp-20170630_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 16
 adp-20170630_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

