<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170209_10-K_edgar_data_872589_0001532176-17-000008_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>15243481</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>885983</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>823762</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>5603440</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>5558781</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>2008222</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>123</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>17</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001532176-17-000008.hdr.sgml : 20170209
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170209160536
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001532176-17-000008
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		96
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170209
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170209

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000872589
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	PHARMACEUTICAL PREPARATIONS [2834]
		IRS NUMBER:				133444607
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			NY
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-19034
		FILM NUMBER:		17587578

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		777 OLD SAW MILL RIVER ROAD
		CITY:			TARRYTOWN
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10591
		BUSINESS PHONE:		9143477000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		777 OLD SAW MILL RIVER ROAD
		CITY:			TARRYTOWN
		STATE:			NY
		ZIP:			10591

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001532176-17-000008.txt : 20170209

10-K
 1
 regn-123116x10k.htm
 FORM 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

(914) 847-7000 
  (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Common Stock - par value $.001 per share 
      
    NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to section 12(g) of the Act: None 
                       Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act. 
    Yes 
    a 
    No 

Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. 
    Yes 
      
    No 
    a 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. 
    Yes 
    a 
    No 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files). 
    Yes 
    a 
    No 

Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K ( 232.405 of this chapter) is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this form 10-K. 

a 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
      Large accelerated filer 
    a 
      
    Accelerated filer 

Non-accelerated filer 

Smaller reporting company 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). 
    Yes 
      
    No 
    a 

The aggregate market value of the common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was approximately $35,224,000,000, computed by reference to the closing sales price of the stock on NASDAQ on June 30, 2016, the last trading day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter. For purposes of this calculation only, the registrant has assumed that all of its directors and executive officers, and no other persons, are its affiliates. This determination of affiliate status is not necessarily a determination for other purposes. 

The number of shares outstanding of each of the registrant's classes of common stock as of February 1, 2017: 

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  : 
  Specified portions of the Registrant's definitive proxy statement to be filed in connection with solicitation of proxies for its 2016 Annual Meeting of Shareholders are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Form 10-K. Exhibit index is located on pages 85 to 92 of this filing.  

Table of Contents  

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page Numbers 
       PART I  

Item 1.  
      
     Business  
      
    2 
       Item 1A.  
      
     Risk Factors  
      
    27 
       Item 1B.  
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
      
    55 
       Item 2.  
      
     Properties  
      
    55 
       Item 3.  
      
     Legal Proceedings  
      
    56 
       Item 4.  
      
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
      
    58 

PART II  

Item 5.  
      
     Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
      
    59 
       Item 6.  
      
     Selected Financial Data  
      
    62 
       Item 7.  
      
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
      
    63 
       Item 7A.  
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
      
    83 
       Item 8.  
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
      
    84 
       Item 9.  
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
      
    84 
       Item 9A.  
      
     Controls and Procedures  
      
    84 
       Item 9B.  
      
     Other Information  
      
    85 

PART III  

Item 10.  
      
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
      
    85 
       Item 11.  
      
     Executive Compensation  
      
    85 
       Item 12.  
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
      
    85 
       Item 13.  
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
      
    85 
       Item 14.  
      
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
      
    85 

PART IV  

Item 15.  
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
      
    85 
       Item 16.  
      
     Form 10-K Summary  
      
    92 

SIGNATURE PAGE  
      
    93 

"ARCALYST       ", "EYLEA       ", "ZALTRAP       ", "  VelocImmune       ", "  VelociGene       ", "  VelociMouse       ", "  VelociMab       ", and "  VelociSuite       " are trademarks of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.  Trademarks and trade names of other companies appearing in this report are, to the knowledge of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., the property of their respective owners. 

Table of Contents  

PART I 
   
  ITEM 1.  BUSINESS 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties relating to future events and the future performance of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ("Regeneron," "Company," "we," "us," and "our"), and actual events or results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Words such as "anticipate," "expect," "intend," "plan," "believe," "seek," "estimate," variations of such words, and similar expressions are intended to identify such forward-looking statements, although not all forward-looking statements contain these identifying words. These statements concern, and these risks and uncertainties include, among others, the nature, timing, and possible success and therapeutic applications of our products, product candidates, and research and clinical programs now underway or planned, including without limitation EYLEA        (aflibercept) Injection, Praluent        (alirocumab) Injection, sarilumab, Dupixent            (dupilumab), fasinumab, and REGN2222; the likelihood and timing of achieving any of our anticipated clinical development milestones; unforeseen safety issues resulting from the administration of products and product candidates in patients, including serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our product candidates in clinical trials; the likelihood and timing of possible regulatory approval and commercial launch of our late-stage product candidates and new indications for marketed products, including without limitation EYLEA, Praluent, sarilumab, Dupixent, fasinumab, and REGN2222; ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight impacting our marketed products (such as EYLEA and Praluent), research and clinical programs, and business, including those relating to patient privacy; determinations by regulatory and administrative governmental authorities which may delay or restrict our ability to continue to develop or commercialize our products and product candidates; competing drugs and product candidates that may be superior to our products and product candidates; uncertainty of market acceptance and commercial success of our products and product candidates; our ability to manufacture and manage supply chains for multiple products and product candidates, as well as actions by our collaborators or third-party manufacturers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain, impacting the foregoing; coverage and reimbursement determinations by third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid; unanticipated expenses; the costs of developing, producing, and selling products; our ability to meet any of our sales or other financial projections or guidance, including without limitation capital expenditures, and changes to the assumptions underlying those projections or guidance; the potential for any license or collaboration agreement, including our agreements with Sanofi, Bayer, and Teva Pharmaceutical Industries Ltd. (or their respective affiliated companies, as applicable), to be cancelled or terminated without any further product success; and risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, including without limitation the patent litigation relating to Praluent described further in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of this report. These statements are made based on management's current beliefs and judgment, and the reader is cautioned not to rely on any such statements. In evaluating such statements, shareholders and potential investors should specifically consider the various factors identified under Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors," which could cause actual events and results to differ materially from those indicated by such forward-looking statements. We do not undertake any obligation to update publicly any forward-looking statement, whether as a result of new information, future events, or otherwise. 
  General 
  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. We commercialize medicines for eye diseases, high low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, and a rare inflammatory condition and have product candidates in development in other areas of high unmet medical need, including rheumatoid arthritis (RA), asthma, atopic dermatitis, pain, cancer, and infectious diseases. 
  Our significant 2016 business highlights include:  
             
    EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection, which is approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) for use in retinal indications, delivered U.S. net sales growth of   24.2%   over 2015, and continues to be the market-leading, branded anti-VEGF therapy in the United States. A Phase 3 study for the treatment of non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) in patients without DME was initiated.  
                
    We, along with our partner Sanofi, received regulatory approval for Praluent in additional countries outside the United States. Praluent has been launched in the United States, Europe, and other countries. We also reported positive Phase 3 data from the ODYSSEY ESCAPE study of Praluent in patients with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HeFH) and consequently, high LDL cholesterol levels who were undergoing apheresis. A Phase 3 cardiovascular outcomes study of Praluent is ongoing.  
                
    We reported positive efficacy and safety data from Phase 3 studies of Dupixent in patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. The FDA accepted, and granted priority review for, the Biologics License Application (BLA) for Dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis with a target action date of March 29, 2017. In addition, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) accepted for review the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for Dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis. The FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for Dupixent for the treatment of atopic dermatitis  
     
   2 

Table of Contents  

in pediatric patients. A Phase 3 study of dupilumab for the treatment of uncontrolled, persistent asthma completed enrollment. A Phase 3 study of dupilumab for the treatment of nasal polyps was also initiated. 
             
    A Phase 3 study of fasinumab in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip was initiated. A Phase 2b study of fasinumab in chronic low back pain was also initiated and later placed on clinical hold by the FDA. We completed an unplanned analysis of this Phase 2b study in chronic low back pain which showed clear evidence of efficacy with improvement in pain scores in all fasinumab groups compared to placebo.  
                
    REGN2810 entered a potentially pivotal clinical study for the treatment of advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. 
                
    Phase 2 studies of EYLEA, in a co-formulated combination with nesvacumab, an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (ANG2), advanced in clinical development for the treatment of wet AMD and DME.  
                 
    We entered into significant new research and development license and collaboration arrangements: a collaboration with Bayer for a co-formulated combination therapy of the Ang2 antibody nesvacumab and aflibercept for the treatment of serious eye diseases; a collaboration with Teva for fasinumab; a license and collaboration with Intellia Therapeutics, Inc. to advance CRISPR/Cas gene-editing technology for   in vivo   therapeutic development; and a license and collaboration agreement with Adicet Bio, Inc. to develop next-generation engineered immune-cell therapeutics with fully human chimeric antigen receptors and T-cell receptors directed to disease-specific cell surface antigens in order to enable the precise engagement and killing of tumor cells. 
                
    Our initiatives in genomics also advanced, and we have sequenced over 150,000 exomes to date.  
                
    From a company growth perspective, we hired our 5,000   th    employee, purchased an office building near our Tarrytown facility, purchased land and an office building near our Rensselaer, New York facilities, continued to expand our bulk drug product manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New York, and continued building out and hiring people for our new Limerick, Ireland commercial manufacturing facility.  
                
    We were named the top employer in the global biotech and pharmaceutical industry by   Science   magazine. We have been ranked first for four of the past six years, with second place rankings in 2015 and 2011.  
                
    Society for Science   the Public announced that Regeneron has become the new title sponsor of the Science Talent Search.  Regeneron became only the third sponsor in 75 years of the nation's oldest and most prestigious high school science competition.  
     Our total revenues were   $4,860.4 million   in 2016, compared to   $4,103.7 million   in 2015 and   $2,819.6 million   in 2014. Our net income was   $895.5 million  , or   $7.70   per diluted share, in 2016, compared to   $636.1 million  , or   $5.52   per diluted share, in 2015, and   $338.1 million  , or   $2.98   per diluted share, in 2014. Refer to Part II, Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations" below for further details of our financial results.  
  We currently have five products that have received marketing approval: 
             
    EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection  , known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap-Eye, which is available in the United States, European Union (EU), Japan, and certain other countries outside the United States for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration (wet AMD), diabetic macular edema (DME), macular edema following retinal vein occlusion (RVO), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). EYLEA is also available in the EU, Japan, and certain other countries outside the United States for the treatment of myopic choroidal neovascularization (mCNV) and in the United States for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. Bayer has additional regulatory applications for EYLEA for various indications pending in other countries. We are collaborating with Bayer on the development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. 
                
    Praluent (alirocumab) Injection  , which is available in the United States where it is indicated as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD), who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol. Praluent is also available in certain countries in Europe for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (HeFH and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their LDL-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. In July 2016, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) granted marketing and manufacturing authorization for Praluent for the treatment of uncontrolled LDL cholesterol, in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia at high cardiovascular risk. The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. We are collaborating with Sanofi on the global development and commercialization of Praluent. See Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to Praluent, which may impact Praluent's commercial availability in the United States and other jurisdictions.  
     
   3 

Table of Contents  

ARCALYST        (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use  , which is available in the United States for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes (CAPS), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome (FCAS) and Muckle-Wells Syndrome (MWS), in adults and children 12 years and older. 
                
    Kevzara   TM    (sarilumab) Solution for Subcutaneous Injection  . In January 2017, Health Canada approved Kevraza for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have an inadequate response to or intolerance to one or more biologic or non-biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs (DMARDs). This is the first approval of Kevzara worldwide. 
                
    ZALTRAP        (ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion  , known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap, which is available in the United States, EU, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan (FOLFIRI), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. Pursuant to a 2015 amended and restated ZALTRAP agreement (Amended ZALTRAP Agreement), Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP, and Sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP. 
     We have   16   product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. These consist of a Trap-based clinical program and   15   fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates, as summarized below. Each of the antibodies in the table below was generated using our   VelocImmune        technology. 
                 Trap-based Clinical Program 
      EYLEA 
      Phase 3 study for the treatment of Neovascular Glaucoma (NVG) (in Japan) was completed in 2016 (in collaboration with Bayer). Phase 3 study for the treatment of non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy in patients without DME initiated in the first quarter of 2016. As described below, aflibercept is also being studied in combination with nesvacumab, an antibody to angiopoietin-2 (Ang2). 
      Antibody-based Clinical Programs in Collaboration with Sanofi 
      Praluent 
      Antibody to PCSK9. In Phase 3 clinical development for LDL cholesterol reduction and for the prevention of cardiovascular events.  
      Sarilumab (REGN88) 
      Antibody to the interleukin-6 receptor (IL-6R). In clinical development in rheumatoid arthritis (Phase 3) and non-infectious uveitis (Phase 2). Phase 2 study in Polyarticular-course Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pcJIA) initiated in the third quarter of 2016. 
      Dupixent (dupilumab/REGN668) 
      Antibody to the interleukin-4 receptor (IL-4R) alpha subunit. In clinical development in atopic dermatitis in adults (Phase 3), atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients (Phase 2), asthma in adults and adolescents (Phase 3), and eosinophilic esophagitis (EoE) (Phase 2). Phase 3 study in patients with nasal polyps initiated in the fourth quarter of 2016. 
      REGN2810 
      Antibody to programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). In Phase 1 clinical development in solid tumors and advanced hematologic malignancies. Potentially pivotal Phase 2 study for the treatment of advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma initiated in the second quarter of 2016. REGN 2810 is also being studied in combination with other antibodies and treatments. 
      REGN3500 
      Antibody to interleukin-33 receptor (IL-33) being developed for inflammatory diseases. Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers initiated in the third quarter of 2016. Phase 1 study in patients with mild asthma initiated in the first quarter of 2017. 
      REGN3767 
      Antibody to Lymphocyte Activation Gene 3 (LAG-3) protein. Phase 1 study (administered alone or in combination with REGN2810) in advanced malignancies initiated in the fourth quarter 2016. 
      Antibody-based Clinical Program in Collaboration with Bayer 
      Nesvacumab/aflibercept (REGN910-3)   **  
      Combination product comprised of an antibody to Ang2 co-formulated with aflibercept for intravitreal injection for use in ophthalmology. Phase 2 studies for the treatment of wet AMD and DME initiated in the first quarter of 2016. Fast track designation received from the FDA for the treatment of patients with wet AMD, DME and diabetic retinopathy.  
      Antibody-based Clinical Program in Collaboration with Teva and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 
      Fasinumab (REGN475)   *  
      Antibody to Nerve Growth Factor (NGF). Phase 3 long-term safety and efficacy study in patients with osteoarthritis of knee and hip initiated in the first quarter of 2016. Phase 2b study for chronic low back pain initiated in the first quarter of 2016, and placed on clinical hold by the FDA in October 2016. 

4 

Table of Contents  

Antibody-based Clinical Programs Developing Independently 
      REGN2222   *  
      Antibody to the Respiratory Syncytial Virus-F (RSV-F) protein. In Phase 3 clinical development for prevention of RSV infection.  
      Evinacumab (REGN1500)   *  
      Antibody to Angptl-3. In Phase 2 clinical development for the treatment of homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia (HoFH) and severe forms of hyperlipidemia. FDA granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of HoFH. 
      Trevogrumab (REGN1033)   *  
      Antibody to myostatin (GDF8). Phase 2 monotherapy study in patients with sarcopenia completed. REGN1033 is being studied in combination with REGN2477.  
      REGN1908-1909   *  
      Antibody to Feld1. In Phase 1 clinical development for the treatment of allergic disease. 
      REGN1979 
      Bispecific antibody against CD20 and CD3. In Phase 1 clinical development for Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma, Chronic Lymphocytic Leukemia, and Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia. REGN1979 is also being studied in combination with REGN2810 in B-cell malignancies.  
      REGN3470-3471-3479   ***  
      Antibody to Ebola virus. Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers initiated in the second quarter of 2016. Also in the second quarter of 2016, the FDA granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of Ebola virus infection.  
      REGN2477   *  
      Antibody to Activin A being developed for Fibrodysplasia Ossificans Progressiva (FOP). Phase 1 study in combination with REGN1033 in healthy volunteers initiated in the second quarter of 2016. FDA granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of FOP. 

*    Sanofi did not opt-in to or elected not to continue to co-develop the product candidate. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. 
       **    Antibodies targeting the Ang2 receptor and ligand in ophthalmology were previously included in our antibody collaboration with Sanofi. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate and a potential development milestone.  
       ***    Sanofi did not opt-in to the product candidate. Under the terms of our agreement, Sanofi is entitled to receive royalties on any future sales of the product candidate. In 2015, we and the Biomedical Advanced Research Development Authority (BARDA) of the U.S. Department of Health and Human Services (HHS) entered into an agreement whereby HHS provides certain funding to support research, development, and manufacturing of a monoclonal antibody therapy for the treatment of Ebola virus infection.  

Our core business strategy is to maintain a strong foundation in basic scientific research and discovery-enabling technologies, and to combine that foundation with our clinical development, manufacturing, and commercial capabilities. We are executing our long-term objective to build a successful, integrated, multi-product biopharmaceutical company that provides patients and medical professionals with innovative options for preventing and treating human diseases. 
  We believe that our ability to develop product candidates is enhanced by the application of our   VelociSuite        technology platforms. Our discovery platforms are designed to identify specific proteins of therapeutic interest for a particular disease or cell type and validate these targets through high-throughput production of genetically modified mice using our   VelociGene        technology to understand the role of these proteins in normal physiology, as well as in models of disease. Our human monoclonal antibody technology (  VelocImmune  ) and cell line expression technologies (  VelociMab       ) may then be utilized to discover and produce new product candidates directed against the disease target. Our antibody product candidates currently in clinical trials were developed using   VelocImmune  . We continue to invest in the development of enabling technologies to assist in our efforts to identify, develop, manufacture, and commercialize new product candidates. 
  
   5 

Table of Contents  

Marketed Products 
  EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection 
  We commenced sales of EYLEA in the United States for the treatment of wet AMD in 2011, macular edema following CRVO in 2012, DME and macular edema following RVO in 2014, and diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME in 2015. Outside the United States, Bayer commenced sales of EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in 2012, macular edema secondary to CRVO in 2013, and visual impairment due to DME and mCNV (in Japan) in 2014. In 2015, the European Commission and the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) approved EYLEA for the treatment of macular edema following RVO, which includes macular edema following BRVO. In addition, the European Commission approved EYLEA for the treatment of visual impairment due to mCNV in 2015. Bayer has additional regulatory applications for EYLEA for various indications pending in other countries, including EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in China.  
  We are collaborating with Bayer on the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. Bayer markets, and records revenue from sales of EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally the profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a percentage of the sales of EYLEA. We maintain exclusive rights to EYLEA in the United States and are entitled to all profits from such sales. 
  Net product sales of EYLEA in the United States were   $3,323.1 million   in 2016, compared to   $2,676.0 million   in 2015 and   $1,736.4 million   in 2014. Bayer records net product sales of EYLEA outside the United States, which were   $1,872.3 million   in 2016, compared to   $1,413.3 million   in 2015 and   $1,038.5 million   in 2014. 
  Praluent (alirocumab) Injection 
  In July 2015, the FDA approved Praluent as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical ASCVD, who require additional lowering of LDL cholesterol. In September 2015, the European Commission granted marketing authorization of Praluent for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (HeFH and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their LDL-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. In July 2016, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare (MHLW) granted marketing and manufacturing authorization for Praluent for the treatment of uncontrolled LDL cholesterol, in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia at high cardiovascular risk. In November 2016, the European Commission approved a Praluent dosing regimen of 300 milligrams (mg) every 4 weeks. The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. We are collaborating with Sanofi on the global development and commercialization of Praluent. See Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to Praluent, which may impact Praluent's commercial availability in the United States and other jurisdictions. 
  Under our antibody collaboration agreement, Sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and Regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. We have exercised our option to co-promote Praluent in the United States and thus far have not exercised our option to co-promote Praluent outside the United States. We and Sanofi share profits and losses from sales of Praluent. In 2016, net product sales of Praluent in the United States were   $94.4 million   and net product sales of Praluent outside of the United States were   $21.9 million  . In 2015, net product sales of Praluent in the United States were   $9.5 million   and net product sales of Praluent outside of the United States were   $1.0 million  . 
  ARCALYST (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use 
  ARCALYST is available in the United States for the treatment of CAPS in adults and children 12 years and older. CAPS are a group of rare, inherited, auto-inflammatory conditions characterized by life-long, recurrent symptoms of rash, fever/chills, joint pain, eye redness/pain, and fatigue. Intermittent, disruptive exacerbations or flares can be triggered at any time by exposure to cooling temperatures, stress, exercise, or other unknown stimuli.  
  Net product sales of ARCALYST were   $15.3 million   in 2016,   $13.5 million   in 2015, and   $14.4 million   in 2014.  
  
   6 

Table of Contents  

Clinical Programs - Ophthalmologic Diseases 
  EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases 
  Overview 
  Vascular Endothelial Growth Factor (VEGF) is a naturally occurring protein in the body. Its normal role in a healthy organism is to trigger formation of new blood vessels (angiogenesis) supporting the growth of the body's tissues and organs. However, in certain diseases, such as wet AMD, it is also associated with the growth of abnormal new blood vessels in the eye, which exhibit abnormal increased permeability that leads to edema. Scarring and loss of fine-resolution central vision often results. CRVO is caused by obstruction of the central retinal vein that leads to a back-up of blood and fluid in the retina. Release of VEGF contributes to increased vascular permeability in the eye and macular edema. In BRVO, a blockage occurs in the blood vessels branching from the main vein draining the retina, resulting in the release of VEGF and consequent retinal edema. For centrally involved DME, VEGF-mediated leakage of fluid from blood vessels in the eye results in interference with vision. Wet AMD, diabetic retinopathy (which includes DME), and RVO are three of the leading causes of adult blindness in the developed world. In these conditions, severe visual loss is caused by neovascular proliferation and/or retinal edema. 
  EYLEA is a recombinant fusion protein, consisting of portions of human VEGF receptors 1 and 2 extracellular domains fused to the Fc portion of human IgG1 and formulated as an iso-osmotic solution for intravitreal administration. EYLEA acts as a soluble decoy receptor that binds VEGF-A and placental growth factor (PlGF) and thereby can inhibit the binding and activation of these cognate VEGF receptors. EYLEA is specially purified and contains iso-osmotic buffer concentrations, allowing for injection into the eye. 
  Neovascular Glaucoma 
  NVG is a secondary glaucoma triggered by the formation of new blood vessels (neovascularization) on the iris and the anterior chamber angle. Neovascularization restricts aqueous outflow and consequently elevates intraocular pressure (IOP). NVG is a serious condition that may lead to permanent loss of vision, a persistently painful eye, and, especially in the advanced stages, is unlikely to respond to treatment. NVG is caused by eye diseases leading to retinal ischemia, mainly CRVO, proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR), and ocular ischemic syndrome (OIS). 
  NVG meets the criteria for an orphan indication in Japan where the estimated number of NVG patients is 30,000 to 40,000. In 2015, Bayer initiated a Phase 3 study in Japan to assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal administration of aflibercept in comparison to sham treatment on the change in IOP in patients with NVG. The primary endpoint of this Phase 3 study (n=54), which was the change in IOP from baseline to week 1, was numerically in favor of EYLEA (p=0.06). Statistically significant improvements were observed in both neovascularization of the iris and neovascularization of the iridocorneal angle with EYLEA, compared to sham treatment. Most ocular treatment emergent adverse events were injection related, including conjunctival hemorrhage and injection site pain in the EYLEA group.  
  Diabetic Retinopathy 
  Diabetic retinopathy is a complication of diabetes mellitus characterized by microvascular damage to the blood vessels in the retina. It can progress to proliferative diabetic retinopathy (PDR), where new, abnormal vessels that are susceptible to hemorrhage grow initially from the retina and/or optic disc and extend beyond the internal limiting membrane. PDR can subsequently lead to various vision-threatening complications such as vitreous hemorrhage, traction macular detachment, and neovascular glaucoma. There is currently no standard treatment for non-proliferative diabetic retinopathy (NPDR) in the absence of DME and patients are often observed until disease progresses sufficiently to warrant intraocular surgery (vitrectomy) or, more commonly, extensive laser treatment (panretinal photocoagulation (PRP)). PRP is utilized with the intent of preserving function of the central retina, but is inherently destructive to the peripheral retina and may result in a considerable loss of peripheral visual field.  
  In the first quarter of 2016, a Phase 3 trial (PANORAMA) was initiated to assess the efficacy and safety of intravitreal aflibercept in patients with moderately severe to severe NPDR without DME.  
  Combination Product with Rinucumab 
  We have recently discontinued the Phase 2 CAPELLA study, evaluating aflibercept co-formulated with rinucumab in patients with wet AMD. The data from the study showed that at 12  and 28 weeks, the combination therapy did not add to the improvement in best corrected visual acuity (BCVA) that was demonstrated with intravitreal aflibercept injection monotherapy, the primary endpoint of the study. Results in the EYLEA monotherapy arm of this study were consistent with the efficacy and safety observed in Phase 3 pivotal studies of EYLEA in wet AMD.  
  
   7 

Table of Contents  

Combination Product with Nesvacumab 
  In the first quarter of 2016, two Phase 2 studies, RUBY (for the treatment of DME) and ONYX (for the treatment of wet AMD), were initiated. Both studies are investigating nesvacumab, an antibody to Ang2 co-formulated with aflibercept, as a single, intravitreal injection. Efficacy and safety data from both the RUBY and ONYX studies will be analyzed at week 36. 
  Late-Stage Antibody-based Clinical Programs 
  Praluent for LDL cholesterol reduction 
  Overview 
  Elevated LDL cholesterol ("bad cholesterol") level is a validated risk factor leading to cardiovascular disease. Statins are a class of drugs that lower LDL cholesterol (LDL-C) through inhibition of HMG-CoA, an enzyme regulating the early and rate-limiting step in cholesterol biosynthesis that ultimately results in an increase in LDL receptors to increase the uptake of plasma LDL lipoproteins. Similar to statins, PCSK9 impacts the number of available LDL receptors and therefore plays a key role in modulating LDL-C levels in the body. PCSK9 is a secreted protein that binds to and induces the destruction of the LDL receptor, thereby interfering with cellular uptake and increasing circulating levels of LDL cholesterol. In a landmark study published in   The     New England Journal of Medicine   in March 2006, patients with lower than normal PCSK9 levels due to a genetic abnormality not only had significantly lower levels of LDL-C, but also a significant reduction in the risk of coronary heart disease (CHD). We used our   VelocImmune   technology to generate a fully human monoclonal antibody inhibitor of PCSK9, called Praluent, which is intended to lower LDL cholesterol. 
  Clinical Programs 
  Phase 3 ODYSSEY Program  . The potential of Praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing 18,000-patient ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial, which is fully enrolled and is expected to be completed in 2017. All patients who entered the ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial had experienced a heart attack or unstable angina requiring hospitalization within the previous year before entering the trial, and experienced inadequately controlled LDL cholesterol despite receiving maximally-tolerated statins and potentially other lipid-lowering therapies.  
  In the first quarter of 2016, an independent Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) of the ODYSSEY OUTCOMES study completed the first interim analysis. In accordance with the protocol, the DMC performed a futility assessment. The DMC recommended the study continue with no changes. In the fourth quarter of 2016, an independent DMC conducted a second, pre-specified interim analysis for futility and overwhelming efficacy (hazard ratio  0.802 corresponding to p 0.0001) for the primary endpoint with consistency across subgroups and regions, positive trends for secondary end points including all-cause mortality, and no excess non cardiovascular mortality. Based on the recommendation of the independent DMC, the ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial will continue as planned. Regeneron remains blinded to the actual results of the first and second interim analyses, and the DMC will continue to monitor the ongoing safety and efficacy of Praluent as planned. 
  In the first quarter of 2016, we and Sanofi announced positive results from the Phase 3 ODYSSEY ESCAPE trial evaluating Praluent in patients with HeFH, whose cholesterol levels required chronic, weekly or bi-weekly apheresis therapy. The trial met its primary endpoint, demonstrating that patients who added Praluent to their existing treatment regimen significantly reduced the frequency of their apheresis therapy by 75%, compared to placebo (p 0.0001). Sixty-three percent of patients treated with Praluent no longer required apheresis, compared to zero percent of placebo patients. Apheresis is a procedure where bad (LDL) cholesterol is removed from the blood, in a process similar to kidney dialysis.  
  In the third quarter of 2016, we and Sanofi announced, and presented at the ESC Congress 2016, additional positive detailed results from the Phase 3 ODYSSEY ESCAPE trial. The trial demonstrated that adding Praluent to existing therapy reduced LDL cholesterol by approximately 50% from baseline (compared to 2% increase for placebo). Other key results from ODYSSEY ESCAPE, which were also published in the   European Heart Journal  , included: 
             
    Ninety-three percent of patients treated with Praluent experienced at least a 50% reduction in their apheresis 
     procedures (p 0.0001). 
             
    Throughout the trial, patients treated with Praluent experienced significant reductions in their LDL cholesterol starting 
     at week 6 (55% greater reduction compared to placebo), and lasting until the trial ended, at week 18 (46% greater reduction compared to placebo) (p 0.0001). 
             
    A similar proportion of patients experienced adverse events (AEs) in both the Praluent and placebo groups (76% in both groups). The most common AEs (occurring in at least 5% of the Praluent group) were fatigue (15% Praluent; 10% placebo), nasopharyngitis (10% Praluent; 10% placebo), diarrhea (10% Praluent; 0% placebo), myalgia (10% Praluent; 5% placebo), upper respiratory infection (7% Praluent; 19% placebo), headache (7% Praluent; 5% placebo), arthralgia (7% Praluent; 10% placebo), and back pain (5% Praluent; 10% placebo). 
     
   8 

Table of Contents  

In the second quarter of 2016, the FDA accepted for review a supplemental BLA for a monthly dosing regimen of Praluent, with a target action date of January 24, 2017. In January 2017, the FDA extended the review period for the supplemental BLA. The FDA determined that Regeneron's and Sanofi's responses to information requested by the FDA during its review of the sBLA was a major amendment, which has resulted in a three month extension of the Prescription Drug User Fee Act (PDUFA) date to allow time for the FDA to review the additional information. The new target action date is April 24, 2017.  
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, as a post-marketing commitment to the FDA, a Phase 4 randomized, placebo-controlled, long-term trial that prospectively evaluates the effect of Praluent on neurocognitive function was initiated.  
  Sarilumab (REGN88; IL-6R Antibody) for inflammatory diseases 
  Overview 
  IL-6 is a key cytokine involved in the pathogenesis of RA, causing inflammation and joint destruction. Sarilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to IL-6R generated using our   VelocImmune   technology. 
  Rheumatoid Arthritis 
  Phase 3 Program  . Based on positive results from the Phase 3 studies of sarilumab in adult patients with active RA, we and Sanofi submitted a BLA for U.S. regulatory approval of sarilumab, which was accepted for review by the FDA in December 2015. The target date for an FDA decision on the BLA was October 30, 2016. However, on October 28, 2016, we and Sanofi announced that the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter (CRL) regarding the BLA for sarilumab. The CRL refers to certain deficiencies identified during a routine good manufacturing practice inspection of the Sanofi facility in Le Trait, France where sarilumab is filled and finished, one of the last steps in the manufacturing process. Satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before the BLA can be approved. The CRL did not identify any concerns relating to the safety or efficacy of sarilumab. The FDA subsequently reclassified the Sanofi Le Trait fill-and-finish facility as "acceptable" based on review of responses to an FDA Form 483, as well as proposed corrective actions. In the first quarter of 2017, we expect to resubmit the sarilumab BLA, contingent upon successful completion of the pre-approval inspection of Le Trait in connection with the Dupixent BLA. The sarilumab active pharmaceutical ingredient is manufactured by Regeneron at its Rensselaer, New York facility. The FDA has completed a pre-approval inspection of Regeneron s sarilumab manufacturing facility; no Form 483 was issued in connection with the pre-approval inspection of Regeneron s facility, which is the form used if the FDA investigators have observed any conditions that in their judgement may constitute a violation of the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and related acts. 
  In July 2016, the European Medicines Agency (EMA) accepted for review the Marketing Authorization Application (MAA) for sarilumab. In addition, in October 2016, an application for marketing approval for sarilumab was submitted in Japan. 
  In March 2016, we and Sanofi announced positive top-line data from the Phase 3 SARIL-RA-MONARCH study that demonstrated superiority of sarilumab vs. adalimumab (marketed by AbbVie Inc. as HUMIRA       ) in improving signs and symptoms of RA at 24 weeks in patients with active rheumatoid arthritis. The primary endpoint was change from baseline in DAS28-ESR at 24 weeks, which demonstrated a statistically significant difference in favor of sarilumab (-3.25 for sarilumab compared to -2.22 for adalimumab, p 0.0001). The study also met clinically important secondary endpoints including improvements in signs and symptoms of RA as measured by patients achieving a 20% improvement in the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria (72% for sarilumab vs. 58% for adalimumab, p 0.01). Additional positive secondary endpoints included ACR50 and ACR70 response, and improvement in physical function, as measured by the Health Assessment Questionnaire - Disability Index (HAQ-DI) as compared to adalimumab (p 0.01 for all of these measures). DAS28-ESR is a measure of disease activity in RA, which includes the evaluation of 28 joints in the body for tenderness and swelling, a general health assessment, and ESR, a laboratory measure for inflammation.  The incidence of AEs (64% for both groups), serious AEs (5% for sarilumab vs. 7% for adalimumab), infections (29% for sarilumab vs. 28% for adalimumab), and serious infections (1% for both groups) were generally similar between groups. Neutropenia, which was not associated with infections, was more common with sarilumab (14% for sarilumab vs. 1% for adalimumab), as has been seen in previous studies with IL-6 inhibitors. Injection site erythema (8% sarilumab vs. 3% adalimumab) was also more common with sarilumab. In November 2016, detailed results of SARIL-RA-MONARCH study were presented  during the American College of Rheumatology (ACR) Annual Meeting.  
  
   9 

Table of Contents  

Non-infectious Uveitis 
  Phase 2 SARIL-NIU-SATURN Study  . SARIL-NIU-SATURN was a small Phase 2, randomized double-masked, placebo-controlled study (n=58) conducted to assess the effect of sarilumab on non-infectious uveitis of the posterior ocular segment. We reported results of this study at the pre-specified primary endpoint (week 16) during 2015. Top-line 52-week data were presented  at the American Academy of Ophthalmology conference in October 2016.   
  Polyarticular-course Juvenile Idiopathic Arthritis (pcJIA) 
  Phase 2 pcJIA Study  . A Phase 2 study of sarilumab in pcJIA was initiated in the third quarter of 2016 and is currently enrolling patients. 
  Dupixent (dupilumab/REGN668; IL-4R Antibody) for allergic and inflammatory conditions 
  Overview 
  IL-4R is required for signaling by the cytokines IL-4 and IL-13. Both of these cytokines are critical mediators of immune response, which, in turn, drives the formation of Immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibodies and the development of allergic responses, as well as the atopic state that underlies atopic (allergic) dermatitis, asthma, nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis. Dupilumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody generated using our   VelocImmune   technology that is designed to bind to IL-4R alpha subunit and block signaling from both IL-4 and IL-13. 
  Atopic Dermatitis 
  Phase 3 Program  . The LIBERTY AD Phase 3 clinical program consisted of five trials of patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis at sites worldwide. Patients from the LIBERTY AD CHRONOS, LIBERTY AD SOLO 1, and LIBERTY AD SOLO 2 studies were transitioned to either the LIBERTY CONTINUE or LIBERTY AD Open label Extension trials.  
  In 2014, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation to Dupixent for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are not adequately controlled with topical prescription therapy and/or for whom these treatments are not appropriate. This designation is based on positive results from Phase 1 and 2 clinical trials, the determination that atopic dermatitis is a serious disease, and preliminary clinical evidence that indicates that the drug may demonstrate substantial improvement over existing therapies. The FDA has accepted for priority review the BLA for Dupixent for the treatment of adult patients with inadequately controlled moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis. The target date for an FDA decision on the BLA is March 29, 2017. An FDA pre-approval inspection for Dupixent at Sanofi's Le Trait fill-and-finish facility has been scheduled for the first quarter of 2017. In addition, in December 2016, the EMA accepted for review the MAA for Dupixent for the treatment of adults with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis who are candidates for systemic therapy. 
  In 2015, the United Kingdom (UK) Medicines   Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) granted Promising Innovative Medicine (PIM) Designation to Dupixent in the short-term treatment of adult patients with severe atopic dermatitis who have responded inadequately to all available topical prescription treatments and/or systemic ciclosporin, or who are intolerant of or ineligible for such treatments. A PIM Designation is an early indication that a medicinal product is a promising candidate for the Early Access to Medicines Scheme (EAMS), in the treatment, diagnosis, or prevention of life-threatening or seriously debilitating conditions with unmet need. PIM Designation is the first step in a 2-step EAMS process that allows patients to be treated with Dupixent in advance of formal regulatory approval.  
  In April 2016, we and Sanofi announced positive top-line data from the Phase 3 LIBERTY AD SOLO 1 and SOLO 2 studies. These studies met their primary endpoints, and treatment with Dupixent as monotherapy significantly improved measures of overall disease severity, skin clearing, itching, quality of life, and mental health. A total of 1,379 adult patients with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis were enrolled in the identically-designed SOLO 1 and SOLO 2 trials. Patients were enrolled if they were not adequately controlled with topical medications, or if topical treatment was not medically advisable. All patients were assessed via the 5-point Investigator's Global Assessment (IGA) scale, ranging from 0 (clear) to 4 (severe); entry criteria required a baseline score of 3 or 4. Patients were also assessed using the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI) and other measures. Patients were randomized into one of three treatment groups: Dupixent 300 mg subcutaneously once per week, Dupixent 300 mg subcutaneously every two weeks, or placebo for 16 weeks following an initial Dupixent loading dose of 600 mg subcutaneously, or placebo. Results at 16 weeks included the following: 
   
   10 

Table of Contents  

For the 16-week treatment period, the overall rate of AEs (65%-73% Dupixent and 65%-72% placebo) was comparable between the Dupixent groups and the placebo groups. The proportion of patients who completed the treatment period was 88%-94% for Dupixent and 80.5%-82% for placebo. The rate of serious AEs was 1%-3% for Dupixent and 5%-6% for placebo. Serious and severe infections were also numerically higher in the placebo groups in both studies (0.5%-1% Dupixent and 2%-3% placebo). AEs that were noted to have a higher rate with Dupixent treatment across both studies included injection site reactions (10%-20% Dupixent and 7%-8% placebo) and conjunctivitis (7%-12% Dupixent and 2% placebo); approximately 26% of patients in both studies reported a history of allergic conjunctivitis at study entry. No patient discontinued therapy due to injection site reactions and only one patient discontinued therapy due to conjunctivitis. More detailed results from SOLO 1 and SOLO 2 were presented at the European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology (EADV) conference in October 2016. 
  In the first quarter of 2016, the Phase 3 LIBERTY AD CAF  study of Dupixent in severe atopic dermatitis was initiated. This placebo-controlled study will investigate two dose regimens of Dupixent (300 mg weekly and 300 mg every two weeks) with concomitant topical corticosteroids in adult patients with severe atopic dermatitis who are not adequately controlled with, or are intolerant to or ineligible for, oral cyclosporine A therapy. The primary endpoint of this study will be the proportion of patients with a 75% or greater improvement from baseline in their EASI score. 
  In June 2016, we and Sanofi announced positive data from the Phase 3 LIBERTY AD CHRONOS study. This study met its primary and secondary endpoints, and Dupixent with topical corticosteroids (TCS) significantly improved measures of overall disease severity at 16 and 52 weeks, when compared to placebo with TCS. The primary endpoint results at week 16 were the following: 
             
    39% of patients who received either Dupixent 300 mg weekly with TCS or Dupixent 300 mg every two weeks with TCS achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions (IGA 0 or 1), compared to 12% of patients receiving placebo with TCS (p 0.0001).  
                
    64% of patients who received Dupixent 300 mg weekly with TCS, and 69% of patients who received Dupixent 300 mg every two weeks with TCS achieved EASI-75, a 75% reduction on an index measuring eczema severity, compared to 23% of patients receiving placebo with TCS (p 0.0001). 
     The secondary endpoint 52-week results were the following: 
             
    40% of patients who received Dupixent 300 mg weekly with TCS, and 36% of patients who received Dupixent 300 mg every two weeks with TCS achieved clearing or near-clearing of skin lesions (IGA 0 or 1), compared to 12.5% of patients receiving placebo with TCS (p 0.0001).  
      Patients were less likely to discontinue therapy in the Dupixent with TCS groups compared to placebo with TCS group (15% in both Dupixent groups; 33% placebo). 
  The overall rate of AEs in the LIBERTY AD CHRONOS study was comparable between the Dupixent with TCS groups (83% for the weekly dose (qw) and 88% for the every two weeks (q2w) dosing group) and the placebo with TCS group (84%). The rate of serious AEs was comparable between the Dupixent with TCS groups (3% (qw) and 4% (q2w)) and placebo with TCS group (5%). Serious and/or severe infections were numerically higher in the placebo with TCS group (1% in both Dupixent groups and 2% placebo). Adverse events that were noted to have a higher rate with Dupixent included injection site reactions (20% (qw) and 16% (q2w) Dupixent; 9% placebo) and conjunctivitis (19% (qw) and 13% (q2w) Dupixent; 8% placebo); 22% of patients on placebo, and 23% (qw) and 28% (q2w) of patients on Dupixent reported a history of allergic conjunctivitis at study entry. 
  Phase 2 Study in Pediatric Patients.   Based on the results of a Phase 2 pharmacokinetic and safety study in pediatric patients (6-17 years of age) with moderate-to-severe atopic dermatitis, two Phase 3 pediatric studies (6-11 years of age and 12-17 years of age) are expected to be initiated in the first half of 2017.  
  In October 2016, the FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for dupilumab for the treatment of moderate to severe (12 to less than 18 years of age) and severe (6 months to less than 12 years of age) atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients who are not adequately controlled with, or who are intolerant to, topical medication.  
  
   11 

Table of Contents  

Asthma 
  Phase 3 Study  . A Phase 3 trial, LIBERTY ASTHMA QUEST, in adult and adolescent patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma was fully enrolled in the third quarter of 2016. LIBERTY ASTHMA QUEST is expected to serve as the second required pivotal efficacy study, since, based on discussions with the FDA, the Phase 2b study will also be considered a pivotal efficacy study. LIBERTY ASTHMA QUEST is a global, placebo-controlled Phase 3 study that enrolled more than 1,900 patients with uncontrolled persistent asthma and is evaluating two doses of dupilumab, 200 mg and 300 mg, subcutaneously administered every other week. 
  Nasal Polyps 
  Phase 3 Study.   A Phase 3 study, LIBERTY NP SINUS, in adult patients with bilateral nasal polyps on a background therapy with intranasal corticosteroids was initiated in the fourth quarter of 2016. 
  Eosinophilic Esophagitis 
  Phase 2 Study.   A Phase 2 trial of dupilumab in eosinophilic esophagitis was initiated in 2015 and is ongoing. EoE is a chronic allergic inflammatory disease that is considered a major cause of gastrointestinal illness. Eosinophils are a type of white blood cell that, due to allergens, can accumulate in the esophagus, causing inflammation and tissue injuries that create difficulty swallowing. People with eosinophilic esophagitis may also have allergies, asthma, atopic dermatitis, or chronic respiratory disease.  
  REGN2222 (RSV-F Antibody) for RSV 
  Overview 
  Respiratory Syncytial Virus, or RSV, is a virus that infects the lungs and breathing passages. It is the most common cause of bronchiolitis (inflammation of the small airways) and is the second most common cause of death, globally, in the first year of life.  RSV results in a significant healthcare burden, as it is the leading cause of infant hospitalizations in the United States. In addition to hospitalizations, RSV frequently results in emergency department, urgent care, and physicians  office visits. It is estimated that about half of all children will have an RSV infection by their first birthday. REGN2222 is a fully human monoclonal antibody to the RSV-F protein. REGN2222 was generated using our   VelocImmune   technology.  
  Clinical Program 
  A Phase 3 study of REGN2222 (NURSERY Pre-Term) was initiated in 2015 and is currently enrolling patients. 
  In 2015, the FDA granted Fast Track designation to REGN2222 for the prevention of serious lower respiratory tract disease caused by RSV.  
  Fasinumab (REGN475; NGF Antibody) for pain due to osteoarthritis and chronic low back pain 
  Overview 
  Pain is a frequent reason for physician visits, a common reason for taking prescription medications, and a major cause of work disability and impaired quality of life. Targeting NGF is a potential advance in pain management. NGF expression is elevated in many acute and chronic painful conditions and NGF blockade has demonstrated efficacy in various animal models of pain. Fasinumab is a fully human monoclonal antibody to NGF, generated using our   VelocImmune   technology. 
  The fasinumab program is expected to consist of approximately 10,000 patients treated with fasinumab. 
  
   12 

Table of Contents  

Osteoarthritis 
  Phase 2/3 Study.   In the second quarter of 2015, we initiated a Phase 2/3 clinical study (16-weeks) in patients with moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis pain of the hip or knee who have a history of inadequate pain relief or intolerance to current analgesic therapies. In May 2016, we announced positive top-line data from the study. At 16 weeks, patients treated with all four doses of fasinumab demonstrated a statistically significant improvement in pain relief, the primary endpoint of the study, as well as improvements in the secondary measure evaluating physical function. The U.S. study enrolled 421 adult patients with moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis of the hip or knee who had a history of inadequate pain relief or intolerance to acetaminophen, and at least one oral nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drug (NSAID) and an opioid. Patients in the study were experiencing significant pain at baseline with an average pain score of 6.3 on a 10-point scale. Patients were evaluated for pain, stiffness, and physical function using the Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Osteoarthritis Index (WOMAC) in addition to other measures. Patients were randomized to one of five treatment groups in a 1:1:1:1:1 fashion; fasinumab 1mg, 3mg, 6mg, 9mg, or placebo, all delivered subcutaneously every 4 weeks through week 12, with the primary efficacy measured at week 16. Following week 16, patients were studied for an additional 20 weeks off treatment. On the primary endpoint, fasinumab-treated patients reported less pain at 16 weeks when compared to placebo on the 10-point WOMAC subscale for pain (-3.03 to -3.65 fasinumab vs. -2.25 placebo; p=0.03 through p=0.0001). Overall incidence of AEs, including serious and severe events, was similar across the fasinumab groups and placebo. As expected with antibodies to NGF, there was an increase in certain neuro-musculoskeletal AEs in the fasinumab treatment groups (17% combined fasinumab; 6% placebo) including arthralgia, paraesthesia, hypoaesthesia, and peripheral edema. 
  In October 2016, we and Teva announced that at the 36-week analysis of the Phase 2/3 clinical study in patients with moderate-to-severe osteoarthritis pain of the hip or knee, the incidence of adjudicated arthropathies was found to be potentially dose-dependent, with a higher rate of patients experiencing arthropathies in the higher dose groups (12% (9mg), 7% (6mg), 5% (3mg), 2% (1mg), and 1% (placebo)). In the ongoing fasinumab osteoarthritis pivotal Phase 3 program (further described below), we and Teva are planning to advance only the lower doses from the Phase 2/3 study, subject to discussion with the FDA and other health authorities. Updated data from the osteoarthritis pain Phase 2/3 study will be presented at upcoming medical congresses. 
  Phase 3 Study.   In the first quarter of 2016, the FDA confirmed that we may proceed with studies of longer than sixteen-week duration.     A Phase 3 long-term safety study in patients with pain due to osteoarthritis of the knee or hip was initiated in the first quarter of 2016.  
  Chronic Low Back Pain 
  A Phase 2b study in chronic low back pain was initiated in the first quarter of 2016. In October 2016, the FDA placed the Phase 2b study in chronic low back pain on clinical hold and requested an amendment of the study protocol; this was based on the FDA's recommendation that patients with advanced osteoarthritis at baseline not receive higher doses of fasinumab. Following this development, we completed an unplanned interim review of results and stopped dosing in the study. The unplanned analysis showed clear evidence of efficacy with improvement in pain scores in all fasinumab groups compared to placebo at the 8- and 12-week time points (nominal p 0.01). Preliminary safety results are generally consistent with what has been previously reported with the class. The Phase 2b chronic low back pain study enrolled approximately 70% of the targeted 800 patients in four dose groups: placebo, 6mg subcutaneously monthly, 9mg subcutaneously monthly, and 9mg intravenously every two months. Patients will continue to be followed for up to 36 weeks.  
  We and Teva plan to design pivotal Phase 3 studies in chronic low back pain. The companies plan to submit a pivotal program plan for review with the FDA and other health authorities. 
  Updated data from the chronic lower back pain Phase 2b study will be presented at upcoming medical congresses. 
  Research Programs 
  Our preclinical research programs include the areas of oncology/immuno-oncology, angiogenesis, ophthalmology, metabolic and related diseases, muscle diseases and disorders, inflammation and immune diseases, bone and cartilage, pain and neurobiology, cardiovascular diseases, and infectious diseases. 
  In March 2016, the   New England Journal of Medicine   published a paper based on the work done at the Regeneron Genetics Center showing that inactivating mutations of the angiopoeitin-like 4 (Angptl-4) gene are associated with a significantly reduced risk of coronary artery disease in humans. Angptl-3 and Angptl-4 are related genes that both regulate lipoprotein lipase.  
  In 2015, we and BARDA entered into an agreement to develop, test, and manufacture a monoclonal antibody therapy for the treatment of Ebola virus infection. Under the terms of the agreement, HHS will provide funding to support our preclinical development, antibody manufacturing, and for a Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers, and has the option to provide additional funding for further manufacturing and development studies. In addition, in 2016, we and BARDA of the HHS entered into an  
  
   13 

Table of Contents  

agreement whereby HHS will provide certain funding to manufacture and study two antibody therapies for the potential treatment of Middle East Respiratory Syndrome (MERS).  
  Research and Development Technologies 
  Many proteins that are either on the surface of or secreted by cells play important roles in biology and disease. One way that a cell communicates with other cells is by releasing specific signaling proteins, either locally or into the bloodstream. These proteins have distinct functions and are classified into different "families" of molecules, such as peptide hormones, growth factors, and cytokines. All of these secreted (or signaling) proteins travel to and are recognized by another set of proteins, called "receptors," which reside on the surface of responding cells. These secreted proteins impact many critical cellular and biological processes, causing diverse effects ranging from the regulation of growth of particular cell types to inflammation mediated by white blood cells. Secreted proteins can at times be overactive and thus result in a variety of diseases. In these disease settings, blocking the action of specific secreted proteins can have clinical benefit. In other cases, proteins on the cell-surface can mediate the interaction between cells, such as the processes that give rise to inflammation and autoimmunity. 
  Our scientists have developed two different technologies to design protein therapeutics to block the action of specific cell surface or secreted proteins. The first technology, termed the "Trap" technology, was used to generate EYLEA, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST. These novel "Traps" are composed of fusions between two distinct receptor components and the constant region of an antibody molecule called the "Fc region," resulting in high affinity product candidates.   VelociSuite   is our second technology platform; it is used for discovering, developing, and producing fully human monoclonal antibodies that can address both secreted and cell-surface targets. 
  VelociSuite.   VelociSuite   consists of   VelocImmune, VelociGene, VelociMouse       , VelociMab, and other related technologies  . The   VelocImmune   mouse platform is utilized to produce fully human monoclonal antibodies.   VelocImmune   was generated by exploiting our   VelociGene   technology (see below), in a process in which six megabases of mouse immune gene loci were replaced, or "humanized," with corresponding human immune gene loci.   VelocImmune   mice can be used to generate efficiently fully human monoclonal antibodies to targets of therapeutic interest.   VelocImmune   and our entire   VelociSuite   offer the potential to increase the speed and efficiency through which human monoclonal antibody therapeutics may be discovered and validated, thereby improving the overall efficiency of our early stage drug development activities. We are utilizing the   VelocImmune   technology to produce our next generation of drug candidates for preclinical and clinical development. 
  Our   VelociGene   platform allows custom and precise manipulation of very large sequences of DNA to produce highly customized alterations of a specified target gene, or genes, and accelerates the production of knock-out and transgenic expression models without using either positive/negative selection or isogenic DNA. In producing knock-out models, a color or fluorescent marker may be substituted in place of the actual gene sequence, allowing for high-resolution visualization of precisely where the gene is active in the body during normal body functioning as well as in disease processes. For the optimization of preclinical development and pharmacology programs,   VelociGene   offers the opportunity to humanize targets by replacing the mouse gene with the human homolog. Thus,   VelociGene   allows scientists to rapidly identify the physical and biological effects of deleting or over-expressing the target gene, as well as to characterize and test potential therapeutic molecules. 
  Our   VelociMouse   technology platform allows for the direct and immediate generation of genetically altered mice from embryonic stem cells (ES cells), thereby avoiding the lengthy process involved in generating and breeding knockout mice from chimeras. Mice generated through this method are normal and healthy and exhibit a 100% germ-line transmission. Furthermore, mice developed using our   VelociMouse   technology are suitable for direct phenotyping or other studies. We have also developed our   VelociMab   platform for the rapid screening of antibodies and rapid generation of expression cell lines for our Traps and our   VelocImmune   human monoclonal antibodies. 
  We have utilized our   VelociSuite   technologies to develop a class of potential drug candidates, known as bi-specific antibodies. In the area of immunotherapies in oncology, we are exploring the use of bi-specific antibodies that target tumor antigens and the CD3 receptor on T-cells to harness the oncolytic properties of T-cells. Our first such bi-specific antibody, which entered into clinical development in 2014, targets CD20 and CD3. 
  Regeneron Genetics Center.     In 2014,     we launched a new human genetics initiative via a wholly owned subsidiary, Regeneron Genetics Center LLC (RGC). RGC leverages de-identified clinical, genomic, and molecular data from human volunteers to identify medically relevant associations in a blinded fashion designed to preserve patients' privacy. The objective of RGC is to expand the use of human genetics for discovering and validating genetic factors that cause or influence a range of diseases where there are major unmet medical needs, with the prospect of improving the drug discovery and development process. RGC is undertaking multiple approaches, including large population-based efforts as well as family- and founder-based approaches. RGC utilizes laboratory automation and innovative approaches to cloud computing to achieve high-quality throughput. 
  Central to the work of RGC is a collaboration with the Geisinger Health System of Pennsylvania. Geisinger collects samples from consented patient volunteers, while RGC performs sequencing and genotyping to generate de-identified genomic data. In  
  
   14 

Table of Contents  

addition, RGC has expanded on its foundational population-based collaboration with Geisinger with a growing number of other institutions worldwide. 
  Collaboration Agreements 
  Collaborations with Sanofi 
  Antibodies  .   Since November 2007, we and Sanofi have been parties to a global, strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies. The collaboration is governed by a Discovery and Preclinical Development Agreement (Antibody Discovery Agreement) and a License and Collaboration Agreement (each as amended), collectively referred to as the Antibody Collaboration. Pursuant to the Antibody Discovery Agreement, as amended, Sanofi is responsible for funding up to $130.0 million of our antibody discovery activities in each of 2016 and 2017 to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. We lead the design and conduct of research activities under the Antibody Discovery Agreement, including target identification and validation, antibody development, research and preclinical activities through filing of an Investigational New Drug application (IND) or its equivalent, toxicology studies, and manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies. Sanofi has the right to extend antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected programs for up to an additional three years after 2017. Sanofi must identify any programs to be extended by June 30, 2017, and we and Sanofi must then agree on a plan and budget for the extended activities.  During the extended period, we will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop such antibodies and conduct preclinical activities through IND preparation. After 2017, funding from Sanofi under the Antibody Discovery Agreement will cease to continue, except with regard to the programs for which Sanofi has exercised its extension right. 
  For each drug candidate identified through discovery research under the Antibody Discovery Agreement (including drug candidates developed during the extended period of up to an additional three years described above), Sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the License and Collaboration Agreement. If it elects to do so, Sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. Development costs for the drug candidate are shared between the companies, with Sanofi generally funding these costs as they are incurred by us, except that following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate are shared 80% by Sanofi and 20% by us. We are generally responsible for reimbursing Sanofi for half of the total development costs for all collaboration antibody products from our share of profits from commercialization of collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the collaboration until commercial supplies of that drug candidate are being manufactured.  
  Under our collaboration agreement, Sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for commercialized products, and Regeneron has the right to co-promote such products. We have exercised our option to co-promote Praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab in the United States. We have not exercised our option to co-promote any of these antibodies outside the United States; however, we retain the right to do so at a future date subject to the terms of the collaboration agreement. We and Sanofi will equally share profits and losses from sales within the United States. We and Sanofi share profits outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at 65% (Sanofi)/35% (us) and ending at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us), and share losses outside the United States at 55% (Sanofi)/45% (us). In addition to profit sharing, we are entitled to receive up to $250.0 million in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing after aggregate annual sales outside the United States exceed $1.0 billion on a rolling 12-month basis. 
  Immuno-Oncology.   In July 2015, we and Sanofi entered into a global strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the IO Collaboration). The IO Collaboration is governed by an Immuno-oncology Discovery and Development Agreement (IO Discovery Agreement), and an Immuno-oncology License and Collaboration Agreement (IO License and Collaboration Agreement). In connection with the IO Discovery Agreement, Sanofi made a $265.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. Pursuant to the IO Discovery Agreement, we will spend up to $1,090.0 million (IO Discovery Budget) to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop therapeutic antibodies against such targets through clinical proof-of-concept. Sanofi will reimburse us for up to $825.0 million (IO Discovery Funding) of these costs, subject to certain annual limits (up to $200.0 million for 2017). The term of the IO Discovery Agreement will continue through the later of five years from the effective date of the IO Collaboration or the date the IO Discovery Budget is exhausted, subject to Sanofi s option to extend it for up to an additional three years for the continued development (and funding) of selected ongoing programs. Pursuant to the IO Discovery Agreement, we will be primarily responsible for the design and conduct of all research activities, including target identification and validation, antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies, filing of IND Applications, and clinical development through proof-of-concept. We will reimburse Sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the IO Discovery Agreement from our share of future profits, if any, from commercialized IO Collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. With regard to product candidates for which proof-of-concept is established, Sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate pursuant to the IO License and Collaboration Agreement (as further described below).  
  
   15 

Table of Contents  

In connection with the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi made a $375.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us. If Sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a product candidate thereunder, it will co-develop the drug candidate with us through product approval. Principal control of development of each product candidate that enters development under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement will alternate between us and Sanofi on a candidate-by-candidate basis. Sanofi will fund drug candidate development costs up front for the candidates for which it is the principal controlling party and we will reimburse half of the total development costs for all such candidates from our share of future IO Collaboration profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. In addition, we and Sanofi will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for the drug candidates for which we are the principal controlling party. The party having principal control over the development of a product candidate will also lead the commercialization activities for such product candidate in the United States. We are obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement until commercial supplies of that IO drug candidate are being manufactured. For all products commercialized under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the United States. Each party will have the right to co-promote licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. The parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products.  
  Under the terms of the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, the parties will also co-develop our antibody product candidate targeting PD-1 (REGN2810). We have principal control over the development of REGN2810, and the parties share equally, on an ongoing basis, development expenses for REGN2810 up to a total of $650.0 million. We will lead commercialization activities in the United States, while Sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the United States and the parties will equally share profits from worldwide sales. We will be entitled to a milestone payment of $375.0 million in the event that sales of all licensed products targeting PD-1 (including REGN2810), together with sales of any other products licensed under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement and sold for use in combination with a licensed product targeting PD-1, equal or exceed $2.0 billion in any consecutive twelve-month period. 
  Collaborations with Bayer  
  EYLEA outside the United States  .   Since October 2006, we and Bayer have been parties to a license and collaboration agreement for the global development and commercialization outside the United States of EYLEA. Under the agreement, we and Bayer collaborate on, and share the costs of, the development of EYLEA. Bayer markets EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between 33.5% and 40.0% of EYLEA net sales.  
  Commencing with the first commercial sale of EYLEA in a major market country outside the United States, we became obligated to reimburse Bayer for 50% of the development costs that it has incurred under the agreement from our share of the collaboration profits (including payments to us based on sales in Japan). The reimbursement payment in any quarter will equal 5% of the then outstanding repayment obligation, but never more than our share of the collaboration profits in the quarter unless we elect to reimburse Bayer at a faster rate. As a result, we expect that a portion of our share of EYLEA profits outside the United States will be used to reimburse Bayer for this repayment obligation.  
  Within the United States, we retain exclusive commercialization rights to EYLEA and are entitled to all profits from any such sales. 
  Ang2 antibody outside the United States.   In March 2016, we entered into an agreement with Bayer governing the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of nesvacumab, an antibody product candidate to Ang2, including in combination with aflibercept, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. Nesvacumab/aflibercept, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to Ang2 co-formulated with aflibercept, is being developed under the agreement. In connection with the agreement, Bayer made a $50.0 million non-refundable up-front payment to us and is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States. We are also entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $80.0 million in development milestone payments from Bayer. Bayer will share profits and losses from sales outside the United States equally with us, and is responsible for certain royalties payable to Sanofi on sales of the product outside of the United States. Within the United States, we have exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. 
  
   16 

Table of Contents  

Collaboration with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 
  Fasinumab Asia.   In September 2015, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation (MTPC) providing MTPC with development and commercial rights to fasinumab in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam, Myanmar, and Sri Lanka (the MTPC Territories). In connection with the agreement, MTPC made a $10.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in 2015, and in the first quarter of 2016, MTPC made additional payments of $45.0 million and $15.0 million to us. We are also entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $155.0 million in development milestone and other contingent payments.   
  Under the agreement, we are obligated to manufacture and supply MTPC with clinical and commercial supplies of fasinumab. If fasinumab is commercialized in the MTPC Territories, we will supply the product to MTPC at a tiered purchase price, which ranges from 30% to 50% of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), and are eligible for additional payments up to an aggregate of $100.0 million upon the achievement of specified annual net sales amounts starting at $200.0 million. 
  Collaboration with Teva  
  Fasinumab  .   In September 2016, we entered into a collaboration agreement with Teva to develop and commercialize fasinumab globally, excluding certain Asian countries that are subject to our collaboration agreement with MTPC (as described above).  In connection with the agreement, Teva made a $250.0 million non-refundable up-front payment in September 2016. We will lead global development activities, and the parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development costs under a global development plan. In addition, we are entitled to receive up to an aggregate of $460.0 million in development milestones and up to an aggregate of $1,890.0 million in contingent payments upon achievement of specified annual net sales amounts. We are responsible for the manufacture and supply of fasinumab globally. 
  Within the United States, we will lead commercialization activities, and the parties will share equally in any profits or losses in connection with commercialization of fasinumab. In the territory outside of the United States, Teva will lead commercialization activities and we will supply product to Teva at a tiered purchase price, which is calculated as a percentage of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances).  
  Collaboration with Intellia Therapeutics 
  In April 2016, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Intellia Therapeutics, Inc., to advance CRISPR/Cas gene-editing technology for   in vivo   therapeutic development. We will collaborate with Intellia to conduct research for the discovery, development, and commercialization of new therapies (Product Collaboration), in addition to the research and technology development of the CRISPR/Cas platform (Technology Collaboration). In connection with the execution of the agreement, we made a $75.0 million up-front payment in April 2016. We are responsible for costs of developing and commercializing CRISPR/Cas products under the Product Collaboration agreement and are also obligated to pay potential development and sales milestones, and royalties on any future sales of such products resulting from the development and commercialization of CRISPR/Cas products. In addition, under the Technology Collaboration agreement, we are responsible for funding certain research and technology development costs. 
  Under the terms of the Product Collaboration agreement, the parties agreed to a target selection process, whereby we may obtain exclusive rights in up to 10 targets to be chosen by us during the collaboration term, subject to various adjustments and limitations set forth in the agreement. Of these 10 total targets, we may select up to five non-liver targets, while the remaining targets will be focused in the liver. Additionally, we may replace a limited number of targets with substitute targets upon the payment of a replacement fee, in which case rights to the replaced target(s) will revert to Intellia.  
  The Technology Collaboration term and the period for selecting targets for inclusion under the Product Collaboration both end in 2022, provided that we may make a payment to extend the term for an additional two-year period. The Product Collaboration agreement will continue until the date when no royalty or other payment obligations are due, unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 
  Certain targets that either we or Intellia select pursuant to the target selection process may be subject to a co-development and co-commercialization arrangement at our option or Intellia s option, as applicable. Transthyretin amyloidosis (ATTR), the first target selected by us, will be subject to the co-development and co-commercialization arrangement between the parties.  
  In May 2016, Intellia completed an initial public offering (IPO) of its common stock and thereby triggered our obligation to purchase up to $50.0 million of Intellia common stock in a concurrent private placement. As part of the concurrent private placement, we purchased from Intellia at the closing of the IPO shares of Intellia common stock for an aggregate purchase price of $50.0 million.  
  
   17 

Table of Contents  

Collaboration with Adicet Bio 
  In July 2016, we entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Adicet Bio, Inc., a privately held company, to develop next-generation engineered immune-cell therapeutics with fully human chimeric antigen receptors (CARs) and T-cell receptors (TCRs) directed to disease-specific cell surface antigens in order to enable the precise engagement and killing of tumor cells. In connection with the execution of the agreement, we made a $25.0 million up-front payment to Adicet, and are obligated to provide Adicet with research funding over the course of a five-year research term. 
  Under the terms of the agreement, the parties will collaborate to identify and validate targets and work together to develop a pipeline of engineered immune-cell therapeutics for selected targets. We have the option to obtain development and commercial rights for a certain number of the product candidates developed by the parties, subject to an option payment for each product candidate. If we exercise our option on a given product candidate, Adicet then will have an option to participate in the development and commercialization for such product. If Adicet doesn t exercise its option, Adicet will be entitled to royalties on any future sales of such products by us. In addition to developing CARs and TCRs for use in novel immune-cell therapies as part of the collaboration, we will have the right to use these CARs and TCRs in our other antibody programs outside of the collaboration. 
  We will also be entitled to royalties on any future sales of products developed and commercialized by Adicet under the agreement for all products for which we do not have development and commercial rights. 
  Manufacturing 
  We currently manufacture bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in Rensselaer, New York, which consists of approximately   564,000   square feet of owned research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. We currently have approximately 97,000 liters of cell culture capacity at these facilities.  
  In 2014, we acquired a 400,000 square foot facility in Limerick, Ireland. We are renovating this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain.   We currently are in the process of validating the facility, as required by regulatory authorities, for the manufacture of bulk drug materials  .  
  Certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our products and product candidates are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform packaging, filling, finishing, labeling, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. See Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply" for further information. 
  Among the conditions for regulatory marketing approval of a medicine is the requirement that the prospective manufacturer's quality control and manufacturing procedures conform to the good manufacturing practice (GMP) regulations of the health authority. In complying with standards set forth in these regulations, manufacturers must continue to expend time, money, and effort in the areas of production and quality control to ensure full technical compliance. Manufacturing establishments, both foreign and domestic, are also subject to inspections by or under the authority of the FDA and by other national, federal, state, and local agencies. We are approved by the FDA and other regulatory agencies to manufacture our marketed products at our Rensselaer facilities.  
  Sales and Marketing  
  We have a New Products Marketing and Planning group, a Market Research group, and a Market Access group to evaluate commercial opportunities for our targets and drug candidates, assess the competitive environment, and analyze the commercial potential of our product portfolio, and prepare for market launch of new products. These groups are fully functional to support our product and product candidates that we are independently developing and/or commercializing, and also work closely with our collaborators for co-developed products to develop marketing plans and forecasts and to develop and execute pre-launch market development programs. 
  We also have a full-service commercialization group to handle various aspects of our commercial programs. The group includes experienced professionals in the fields of marketing, communications, professional education, patient education and advocacy, reimbursement and market access, trade and distribution, commercial operations, commercial analytics, market research, and forecasting. Moreover, for EYLEA and Praluent, we have hired, trained, and deployed a field-based organization including regional directors, medical specialists, and reimbursement managers, each typically with a number of years of experience in the biopharmaceutical industry in a variety of therapeutic areas including oncology, ophthalmology, immunology, and inflammation. We have over 450 field-based employees in the United States, including personnel that have been recently hired in preparation for the potential approval of sarilumab and Dupixent.  
  
   18 

Table of Contents  

In connection with the sales and marketing of ARCALYST for CAPS, we have a marketing, trade, reimbursement, and distribution group to provide case management and reimbursement services to patients with CAPS and their treating physicians.   
  Customers 
  We sell EYLEA in the United States to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. We sell ARCALYST in the United States to two specialty pharmacies. Under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. For EYLEA, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for ARCALYST, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients. We had sales to three customers (Besse Medical, a subsidiary of AmerisourceBergen Corporation; McKesson Corporation; and Curascript SD Specialty Distribution, a subsidiary of Express Scripts) that each accounted for more than 10% of total gross product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016. On a combined basis, our product sales to these customers accounted for approximately   99%   of our gross product revenue for the year ended December 31, 2016. We are also a party to collaboration agreements with Bayer and Sanofi, whereby our collaborator is responsible for recording product sales of EYLEA outside the United States and global sales of Praluent, respectively.  
  Competition 
  We face substantial competition from pharmaceutical, biotechnology, and chemical companies. Our competitors include Genentech (a member of the Roche Group), Roche, Novartis AG, Pfizer Inc., Allergan, Inc., Eli Lilly and Company, AbbVie Inc., Merck   Co., Inc., Amgen Inc., AstraZeneca PLC, Bristol-Myers Squibb Company, Johnson   Johnson, GlaxoSmithKline plc, and others. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical, and clinical product development, manufacturing capabilities, and financial, marketing, and human resources than we do. Competition from smaller competitors may also be or become more significant if those competitors acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we are able to commercialize additional product candidates, one or more of our competitors may have brought a competitive product to market earlier than us or may have obtained or obtain patent protection that dominates or adversely affects our activities or products. Our ability to compete depends, to a great extent, on how fast we can develop safe and effective product candidates, complete clinical testing and approval processes, and supply commercial quantities of the product to the market. Competition among product candidates approved for sale is based on efficacy, safety, reliability, availability, price, patent position, and other factors.   
  
   19 

Table of Contents  

EYLEA.    The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for EYLEA: 
                               Competitor  
  Product/Product  
  Candidate 
      
    Commercial or  
  Development  
  Status 
      
    Competitor 
      
    Indication 
      
    Territory 
      Lucentis        (ranibizumab) 
      
    Approved 
      
    Novartis/Genentech 
      
    Wet AMD, DME, macular edema following RVO (including CRVO and BRVO), diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, and mCNV 
      
    Worldwide 
      Avastin        (bevacizumab) 
  (off-label) 
      
    Used to treat wet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVO  
      
    Roche/Genentech 
      
    Wet AMD, DME, and macular edema following RVO 
      
    Worldwide 
      Ozurdex        (dexamethasone intravitreal implant)  
      
    Approved 
      
    Allergan 
      
    DME, RVO 
      
    Worldwide 
      Iluvien        (fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant) 
      
    Approved 
      
    Alimera Sciences 
      
    DME 
      
    United States, EU 
      Conbercept 
      
    Approved in China for wet AMD 
    
  In development for other eye indications 
      
    Chengdu Kanghong Pharmaceutical Group 
      
    Wet AMD 
      
    China 
      Brolucizumab (RTH258), a single chain antibody fragment directed against VEGF-A 
      
    In development (non-inferiority Phase 3 trial initiated in 2014 comparing RTH258 and EYLEA) 
      
    Novartis 
      
    Wet AMD 

Abicipar pegol (anti-VEGF-A-DARPin       ) 
      
    In development (non-inferiority Phase 3 trial initiated in 2015 comparing dosing regimens of abicipar pegol and Lucentis)  
      
    Allergan 
      
    Wet AMD and related conditions 

Bi-specific antibody 
  RG7716 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Roche/Genentech 
      
    Wet AMD 

Lucentis        port delivery system 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Roche/Genentech 
      
    Wet AMD and related conditions 

PF582, a biosimilar to Lucentis 
      
    In development (Phase 1/2) 
      
    Pfenex Inc.  
      
    Wet AMD and related conditions 

FYB201, a biosimilar to Lucentis 
      
    In development (Phase 3) 
      
    Formycon AG (in collaboration with Bioeq GmbH) 
      
    Wet AMD and related conditions 

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition EYLEA faces, see also Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA -   The commercial success of EYLEA is subject to strong competition  " and Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -   Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition.  "  
  
   20 

Table of Contents  

Praluent.      The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for Praluent: 
                               Competitor Product/Product Candidate 
      
    Commercial or  
  Development  
  Status 
      
    Competitor 
      
    Indication/Target 
      
    Territory 
      Repatha        (evolocumab) 
      
    Approved  
      
    Amgen 
      
    PCSK9 inhibitor antibody; adjunct to diet and (i) maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with HeFH or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease, who require additional lowering of LDL-C or (ii) other LDL-lowering therapies in patients with homozygous familial hypercholesterolemia who require additional lowering of LDL-C 
      
    United States, Canada, EU, Japan 
      LY3015014 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Eli Lilly 
      
    Antibody against PCSK9 

Inclisiran (ALN-PCSsc) 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Alnylam Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with The Medicines Company) 
      
    RNAi molecule against PCSK9 (injectable, small molecule) 

Anacetrapib 
      
    In development (Phase 3) 
      
    Merck 
      
    CETP-inhibitor (oral, small molecule) 

ETC-1002 (bempedoic acid) 
      
    In development (Phase 3) 
      
    Esperion Therapeutics, Inc. 
      
    ACL-inhibitor 
  (oral, small molecule) 

Gemcabene 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Gemphire Therapeutics Inc. 
      
    Cholesterol synthesis inhibitor (oral, small molecule) 

AMG-899 (TA-8995) 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Amgen 
      
    CETP Inhibitor (oral, small molecule) 

MEDI4166 
      
    In development (Phase 1) 
      
    AstraZeneca 
      
    Anti-PCSK9 antibody fused to a GLP-1 peptide (injectable, biologic) 

The table above is not exhaustive. For additional information regarding the substantial competition Praluent faces, see also Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Praluent -   The commercial success of Praluent is subject to strong competition  ." 
  
   21 

Table of Contents  

Monoclonal Antibodies in Development.    Our clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies which were generated using our   VelocImmune   technology. Our antibody generation technologies and clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. Numerous other companies are developing therapeutic antibody products. Companies such as Pfizer, Johnson   Johnson, AstraZeneca, Amgen, Biogen Inc., Novartis, Roche/Genentech, Bristol-Myers Squibb, AbbVie, and GlaxoSmithKline have generated therapeutic products that are currently in development or on the market that are derived from recombinant DNA that comprise human antibody sequences. Astellas has licensed our   VelocImmune   technology as part of their internal antibody development programs.  
  The following table provides an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development: 
  
   22 

Table of Contents  

Regeneron Antibody  
  Program 
      
    Competitor 
      
    Competitor  
  Product/Product  
  Candidate 
      
    Commercial or  
  Development  
  Status 
      
    Target 
      Sarilumab (Phase 3) 
  Target: IL-6R 
      
    Roche 
      
    Actemra        (Tocilizumab) 
      
    Approved 
      
    Antibody against IL-6R for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and systemic juvenile idiopathic arthritis 

Johnson   Johnson (in collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline) 
      
    Sirukumab 
      
    In development (Phase 3) 
      
    Antibody against IL-6 

Alder Biopharmaceuticals, Inc. (in collaboration with Vitaeris Inc.) 
      
    Clazakizumab 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Antibody against IL-6 

Ablynx  
      
    ALX-0061 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Antibody against IL-6R 

R-Pharm 
      
    Olokizumab 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Antibody against IL-6 

Roche 
      
    SA 237 
      
    In development (Phase 1/Phase 3) 
      
    Antibody against IL-6R 

Bird Rock Bio, Inc. 
      
    Gerilimzumab 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Antibody against IL-6 
      Dupilumab (Phase 2/Phase 3) 
  Target: IL-4R 
      
    GlaxoSmithKline 
      
    Nucala        (mepolizumab) 
      
    Approved 
      
    Antibody against IL-5 

Teva 
      
    Cinqair        (reslizumab) 
      
    Approved 
      
    Antibody against IL-5 

Roche 
      
    Lebrikizumab 
      
    In development (Phase 3) 
      
    Antibody against IL-13 

AstraZeneca 
      
    Benralizumab 
      
    In development (Phase 3) 
      
    Antibody against IL-5R 

AstraZeneca 
      
    Tralokinumab 
      
    In development (Phase 3) 
      
    Antibody against IL-13 

Novartis 
      
    QBX258 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Fixed dose combination of antibodies against IL-4 and IL-13 

Galderma S.A. 
      
    Nemolizumab 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Antibody against IL-31R 

Amgen (in collaboration with AstraZeneca) 
      
    AMG-157 
      
    In development (Phase 2) 
      
    Antibody against TSLP 

AstraZeneca 
      
    MEDI9314 
      
    In development (Phase 1) 
      
    Antibody against IL-4R 
      Fasinumab (Phase 2b/ Phase 3)  
  Target: NGF 
      
    Pfizer/Eli Lilly 
      
    Tanezumab 
      
    In development (Phase 3) 
      
    Antibody against NGF 
      REGN2222 (Phase 3) 
  Target: RSV-F protein 
      
    AstraZeneca 
      
    Synagis        (palivizumab) 
      
    Approved 
      
    Antibody against RSV-F protein 

AstraZeneca (in collaboration with AIMM Therapeutics) 
      
    MEDI8897 
      
    In development (Phase 2b) 
      
    Antibody against RSV-F protein 

23 

Table of Contents  

The table above is not exhaustive and is focused on antibody competitors. We are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications. For sarilumab, oral, small-molecule JAK inhibitors such as Pfizer's Xeljanz        (tofacitinib citrate) and Eli Lilly's baricitinib may pose a competitive threat in the rheumatoid arthritis indication if sarilumab is approved in such indication. For dupilumab, Pfizer's Eucrisa        (crisaborole) may be a competitor in the atopic dermatitis indication if dupilumab is approved in such indication. 
  For additional information regarding our antibody programs and the substantial competition they face, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -   Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition  ."  
  Other Areas.      Many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies are attempting to discover new therapeutics for indications in which we invest substantial time and resources. In these and related areas, intellectual property rights have been sought and certain rights have been granted to competitors and potential competitors of ours, and we may be at a substantial competitive disadvantage in such areas as a result of, among other things, our lack of experience, trained personnel, and expertise. A number of corporate and academic competitors are involved in the discovery and development of novel therapeutics that are the focus of other research or development programs we are now conducting. Some of these competitors are currently conducting advanced preclinical and clinical research programs in these areas. These and other competitors may have established substantial intellectual property and other competitive advantages. 
  If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business, operating results, financial condition, cash flows, or future prospects. 
  We also compete with academic institutions, governmental agencies, and other public or private research organizations, which conduct research, seek patent protection, and establish collaborative arrangements for the development and marketing of products that would provide royalties or other consideration for use of their technology. These institutions are becoming more active in seeking patent protection and licensing arrangements to collect royalties or other consideration for use of the technology they have developed. Products developed in this manner may compete directly with products we develop. We also compete with others in acquiring technology from these institutions, agencies, and organizations. 
  Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets 
  Our success depends, in part, on our ability to obtain patents, maintain trade secret protection, and operate without infringing on the proprietary rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -   We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights  "; and Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings"). Our policy is to file patent applications to protect technology, inventions, and improvements that we consider important to our business and operations. We hold an ownership interest in a number of issued patents in the United States and foreign countries with respect to our products and technologies. In addition, we hold an ownership interest in hundreds of patent applications in the United States and foreign countries.  
  Our patent portfolio includes granted patents and pending patent applications covering our   VelociSuite   technologies, including our   VelocImmune   mouse platform which produces fully human monoclonal antibodies. Our issued patents covering these technologies generally expire between 2020 and 2030. However, we continue to file patent applications directed to improvements to these technology platforms. 
  Our patent portfolio also includes issued patents and pending applications relating to commercialized products and our product candidates in clinical development. These patents cover the proteins and DNA encoding the proteins, manufacturing patents, method of use patents, and pharmaceutical compositions, as well as various methods of using the products.  
  The following table describes our U.S. patents and European patents (EP) that we currently consider of primary importance to our marketed products, including the territory, patent number, general subject matter class, and expected expiration dates. The noted expiration dates include any patent term adjustments. Certain of these patents may also be entitled to term extensions. We continue to pursue additional patents and patent term extensions in the United States and other jurisdictions covering various aspects of our products that may, if issued, extend exclusivity beyond the expiration of the patents listed in the table below. One or more patents with the same or earlier expiry date may fall under the same "general subject matter class" for certain products and are not separately listed. 
  
   24 

Table of Contents  

In addition, in the United States and certain other countries, our competitive position may be enhanced due to the availability of market exclusivity under relevant law (for additional information regarding market exclusivity, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity -   Loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products  "). The effect of expiration of a patent relating to a particular product also depends upon other factors, such as the nature of the market and the position of the product in it, the growth of the market, the complexities and economics of the process for manufacture of the active ingredient of the product, and the requirements of new drug provisions of the Federal Food, Drug and Cosmetic Act or similar laws and regulations in other countries. 
  We also are the nonexclusive licensee of a number of additional patents and patent applications. In 2011, we and Genentech entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement relating to ophthalmic sales of EYLEA in the United States. Pursuant to this agreement, we received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to VEGF receptor proteins, known as the Davis-Smyth patents, and other technology patents. In 2013, we entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech; under the amended agreement, we received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by Genentech for the prevention or treatment of human eye diseases and eye disorders through administration of EYLEA to the eye. Also in 2013, we entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech and Sanofi under which we and Sanofi received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, in all indications for human use other than the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders through administration to the eye. Our obligation to pay royalties to Genentech pursuant to these agreements terminated on May 7, 2016, when the licenses granted to us thereunder became fully paid up and royalty free for the duration of the remaining term of the underlying patents. 
  Patent law relating to the patentability and scope of claims in the biotechnology field is evolving and our patent rights are subject to this additional uncertainty. The degree of patent protection that will be afforded to our products in the United States and other important commercial markets is uncertain and is dependent upon the scope of protection decided upon by the patent offices, courts, and governments in these countries. There is no certainty that our existing patents or others, if obtained, will provide us protection from competition or provide commercial benefit.  
  Others may independently develop similar products or processes to those developed by us, duplicate any of our products or processes or, if patents are issued to us, design around any products and processes covered by our patents. We expect to continue, when appropriate, to file product and process applications with respect to our inventions. However, we may not file any such applications or, if filed, the patents may not be issued. Patents issued to or licensed by us may be infringed by the products or processes of others. 
  Defense and enforcement of our intellectual property rights is expensive and time consuming, even if the outcome is favorable to us. It is possible that patents issued or licensed to us will be successfully challenged, that a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of third parties, or that we may have to alter or discontinue the development of our products or pay licensing fees to take into account patent rights of third parties (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Intellectual Property  
  
   25 

Table of Contents  

and Market Exclusivity -   We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights  "; and Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings"). 
  Government Regulation 
  Regulation by government authorities in the United States and foreign countries is a significant factor in the research, development, manufacture, and marketing of our products and our product candidates (see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors - Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA -   We and Bayer are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to EYLEA. If we or Bayer fail to maintain regulatory compliance for EYLEA, EYLEA marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition  ";      "Risks Related to Commercialization of Praluent -   We and Sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to Praluent. If we or Sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for Praluent, Praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition  "; and "Risks Related to Maintaining Approval of Our Marketed Products and the Development and Obtaining Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -   If we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition."  ). All of our product candidates will require regulatory approval before they can be commercialized. In particular, human therapeutic products are subject to rigorous preclinical and clinical trials and other pre-market approval requirements by the FDA and foreign authorities. Many aspects of the structure and substance of the FDA and foreign pharmaceutical regulatory practices have been reformed during recent years, and continued reform is under consideration in a number of jurisdictions. The ultimate outcome and impact of such reforms and potential reforms cannot be predicted.   
  The activities required before a product candidate may be marketed in the United States begin with preclinical tests. Preclinical tests include laboratory evaluations and animal studies to assess the potential safety and efficacy of the product candidate and its formulations. The results of these studies must be submitted to the FDA as part of an IND, which must be reviewed by the FDA before proposed clinical testing can begin. Typically, clinical testing involves a three-phase process. In Phase 1, trials are conducted with a small number of subjects to determine the early safety profile of the product candidate. In Phase 2, clinical trials are conducted with subjects afflicted with a specific disease or disorder to provide enough data to evaluate the preliminary safety, tolerability, and efficacy of different potential doses of the product candidate. In Phase 3, large-scale clinical trials are conducted with patients afflicted with the specific disease or disorder in order to provide enough data to understand the efficacy and safety profile of the product candidate, as required by the FDA. The results of the preclinical and clinical testing of a biologic product candidate are then submitted to the FDA in the form of a BLA for evaluation to determine whether the product candidate may be approved for commercial sale. In responding to a BLA, the FDA may grant marketing approval, request additional information, or deny the application. Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA also requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. 
  Any approval required by the FDA for any of our product candidates may not be obtained on a timely basis, or at all. The designation of a clinical trial as being of a particular phase is not necessarily indicative that such a trial will be sufficient to satisfy the parameters of a particular phase, and a clinical trial may contain elements of more than one phase notwithstanding the designation of the trial as being of a particular phase. The results of preclinical studies or early stage clinical trials may not predict long-term safety or efficacy of our compounds when they are tested or used more broadly in humans.  
  Approval of a product candidate by comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries is generally required prior to commencement of marketing of the product in those countries. The approval procedure varies among countries and may involve additional testing, and the time required to obtain such approval may differ from that required for FDA approval.   
  Various federal, state, and foreign statutes and regulations also govern or influence the research, manufacture, safety, labeling, storage, record keeping, marketing, transport, and other aspects of pharmaceutical product candidates. The lengthy process of seeking these approvals and the compliance with applicable statutes and regulations require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us or our collaborators or licensees to obtain, or any delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could adversely affect the manufacturing or marketing of our products and our ability to receive product or royalty revenue.  
  In addition to the foregoing, our present and future business will be subject to regulation under the United States Atomic Energy Act, the Clean Air Act, the Clean Water Act, the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation and Liability Act, the National Environmental Policy Act, the Toxic Substances Control Act, the Resource Conservation and Recovery Act, national restrictions, and other current and potential future local, state, federal, and foreign regulations. 
  
   26 

Table of Contents  

Business Segments 
  We manage our business as one segment which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. For financial information related to our one  segment, see Part II, Item 6. "Selected Financial Data" and our Consolidated Financial Statements and related notes.  
  Employees 
  As of December 31, 2016, we had approximately   5,400   full-time employees, of whom approximately   700   held a Ph.D. and/or M.D., or PharmD degree. We believe that we have been successful in attracting skilled and experienced personnel in a highly competitive environment; however, competition for these personnel is intense. None of our personnel are covered by collective bargaining agreements and our management considers its relations with our employees to be good. 
  Corporate Information 
  We were incorporated in the State of New York in 1988 and publicly listed in 1991. Our principal executive offices are located at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York 10591, and our telephone number at that address is (914) 847-7000.  
  We make available free of charge on or through our Internet website (  http://www.regeneron.com  ) our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and, if applicable, amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Exchange Act, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC).  
  Investors and other interested parties should note that we use our media and investor relations website (  http://newsroom.regeneron.com  ) and our social media channels to publish important information about Regeneron, including information that may be deemed material to investors. We encourage investors and other interested parties to review the information we may publish through our media and investor relations website and the social media channels listed on our media and investor relations website, in addition to our SEC filings, press releases, conference calls, and webcasts. 
   
  ITEM 1A.  RISK FACTORS 
  We operate in an environment that involves a number of significant risks and uncertainties. We caution you to read the following risk factors, which have affected, and/or in the future could affect, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. The risks described below include forward-looking statements, and actual events and our actual results may differ materially from these forward-looking statements. Additional risks and uncertainties not currently known to us or that we currently deem immaterial may also impair our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. Furthermore, additional risks and uncertainties are described under other captions in this report and should also be considered by our investors. 
  Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA 
  We are substantially dependent on the success of EYLEA. If we or Bayer are unable to continue to successfully commercialize EYLEA, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. 
  EYLEA net sales represent a substantial portion of our revenues and this concentration of our net sales in a single product makes us substantially dependent     on that product. For the years ended   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , EYLEA net sales in the United States represented   68%   and   65%   of our total revenues, respectively. If we were to experience difficulty with the commercialization of EYLEA in the United States, if Bayer were to experience any difficulty with the commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States, or if we and Bayer are unable to maintain current marketing approvals of EYLEA, we may experience a reduction in revenue and may not be able to sustain profitability, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. 
  We expect that the continued commercial success of EYLEA will depend on many factors, including the following: 
             
    effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the United States for the marketing of EYLEA, including pricing strategy and the continued effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; 
                
    maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for EYLEA with third parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of EYLEA to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the FDA, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities; 
                
    our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of EYLEA; 
                
    our ability to differentiate EYLEA from Lucentis and other competitive products, and the willingness of retinal specialists and patients to switch from Lucentis or off-label use of repackaged Avastin to EYLEA or to start treatment with EYLEA; 
     
   27 

Table of Contents  

the ability of patients, retinal specialists, and other providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and other government and private payers in the United States and foreign jurisdictions;  
                
    our ability to maintain sales of EYLEA in the face of competitive products, including those currently in clinical development; 
                
    the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the United States, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices; and 
                
    risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, as discussed under "Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity" below. 
     More detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of EYLEA is provided in the risk factors below. 
  We and Bayer are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to EYLEA. If we or Bayer fail to maintain regulatory compliance for EYLEA, EYLEA  marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  We and Bayer are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to EYLEA for its currently approved indications in the United States, EU, and other countries where the product is approved. If we or Bayer fail to maintain regulatory compliance for EYLEA for its currently approved indications (including for any of the reasons discussed below under "Risks Related to Maintaining Approval of Our Marketed Products and the Development and Obtaining Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -   Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain  "), EYLEA marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. Failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. See also "Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply -   If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales  " below. 
  Serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of EYLEA could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of EYLEA could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. For additional information about some of these risks, see "Risks Related to Maintaining Approval of Our Marketed Products and the Development and Obtaining Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -   Serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition  " below. 
  
   28 

Table of Contents  

Sales of EYLEA are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Our sales in the United States of EYLEA are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Sales of EYLEA in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar programs in those countries. In the United States, there is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. For example, in September 2011 the Office of Inspector General (OIG) of the Department of Health and Human Services issued a report entitled "Review of Medicare Part B Avastin and Lucentis Treatments for Age-Related Macular Degeneration" in which the OIG details possible savings to the Medicare program by using off-label, repackaged Avastin rather than Lucentis for the treatment of wet AMD. In addition, in March 2016, the Centers for Medicare   Medicaid Services (CMS) of the Department of Health and Human Services  released a proposed rule regarding a new payment model for the reimbursement by Medicare of drugs administered in the physician office or hospital outpatient department settings. If approved, the proposed rule could potentially redistribute and reduce reimbursement currently available to physicians and hospitals that furnish such drugs, including EYLEA, and may also impact physician prescription practices. Economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from U.S. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of EYLEA. In addition, other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs. Since EYLEA is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize EYLEA will be materially adversely impacted. Our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. See also "Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -   The successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition  " below. 
  The commercial success of EYLEA is subject to strong competition. 
  The market for eye disease products is very competitive (an overview of the competitive landscape for EYLEA is provided in Part I, Item 1. "Business - Competition -   EYLEA  "). For example, Novartis and Genentech/Roche are collaborating on the commercialization and further development of a VEGF antibody fragment, Lucentis, for the treatment of various eye indications. Lucentis is approved in one or more jurisdictions for the treatment of wet AMD, macular edema following RVO (including CRVO and BRVO), DME, diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME, and mCNV. Competitors are also exploring the development of a biosimilar version of Lucentis; in particular, Pfenex is developing PF582 (a Phase 1b/2a trial in patients with wet AMD has been completed), and Formycon (in collaboration with Bioeq) is developing FYB201 (currently in a Phase 3 trial in patients with wet AMD).  
  Other competitive or potentially competitive products include Allergan's Ozurdex (approved by the FDA for the treatment of macular edema following RVO and for the treatment of DME) and Alimera's Iluvien (approved by the FDA for the treatment of DME in patients who have been previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure), both of which are intravitreal implants of corticosteroids. Many other companies are working on the development of product candidates and extended delivery devices for the potential treatment of wet AMD, DME, and RVO, including those that act by blocking VEGF and VEGF receptors, as well as small interfering ribonucleic acids (siRNAs) that modulate gene expression. For example, Genentech/Roche is developing a Lucentis       port delivery system implant (currently in a Phase 2 study in patients with wet AMD). Novartis is developing RTH258 (ESBA1008), a humanized monoclonal single-chain FV (scFv) antibody fragment targeting VEGF-A for wet AMD, and initiated a non-inferiority Phase 3 trial comparing RTH258 and EYLEA in December 2014. Allergan is developing abicipar pegol for wet AMD and related conditions (currently studied in Phase 3 trials against Lucentis       as a comparator drug). Additionally, companies are developing products (or combinations of products) to treat wet AMD that act by blocking VEGF and VEGF receptors, as well as other targets (for example, Ang2). Genentech/Roche is developing a bi-specific antibody targeting both VEGF and Ang2 for wet AMD and DME (currently in Phase 2 trials for both indications). Competitors are also developing eye-drop formulations, oral therapies, and gene/cell therapies for various indications that, if approved, would compete with EYLEA in one or more of its currently approved indications. 
  In addition, ophthalmologists are using off-label, third-party repackaged versions of Genentech/Roche's approved VEGF antagonist, Avastin, for the treatment of wet AMD, DME, and RVO. The relatively low cost of therapy with repackaged Avastin in patients with wet AMD presents a significant competitive challenge in this indication. Competitors (including Amgen) are also  
  
   29 

Table of Contents  

developing a biosimilar version of Avastin. Long-term, controlled clinical trials comparing Lucentis to Avastin in the treatment of wet AMD are being conducted. One-year data from the Comparison of Age-Related Macular Degeneration Treatments Trial (CATT) were reported in April 2011 and indicated that Avastin dosed monthly was non-inferior to Lucentis dosed monthly in the primary efficacy endpoint of mean visual acuity gain at 52 weeks. Two-year data from CATT were reported in April 2012 and indicated that monthly Avastin was non-inferior to monthly Lucentis in mean visual acuity gain; as-needed dosing was   not   non-inferior to monthly dosing. Avastin is also being evaluated in eye diseases in trials that have been initiated in the United Kingdom, Canada, Brazil, Mexico, Germany, Israel, and other countries. Furthermore, Lucentis and off-label use of repackaged Avastin present significant competitive challenges as doctors and patients have had significant experience using these medicines. Moreover, the reported results of the CATT study, combined with the relatively low cost of repackaged Avastin in treating patients with wet AMD, may exacerbate the competitive challenge which EYLEA faces in this or other eye indications for which it is approved.  
  Finally, ZALTRAP has not been manufactured and formulated for use in intravitreal injections, and there is a risk that third parties may attempt to repackage ZALTRAP for off-label use and sale for the treatment of wet AMD and other diseases of the eye, which would present a potential low-cost competitive threat to EYLEA for its approved indications. We are aware of one published study claiming that ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) may be safely administered to the eye. 
  See also "Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -   We may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects  " below. 
  We rely on our collaboration with Bayer for commercializing EYLEA. 
  While we have established our own sales and marketing organization for EYLEA in the United States for its currently approved indications, our commercialization experience is still relatively limited and we have no sales, marketing, commercial, or distribution capabilities for EYLEA outside the United States.  
  Under the terms of our license and collaboration agreement with Bayer (which is terminable by Bayer at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice), we rely on Bayer for sales, marketing, and distribution of EYLEA in countries outside the United States. If we and Bayer are unsuccessful in continuing to commercialize EYLEA, our ability to sustain profitability would be materially impaired. We have limited commercial capabilities outside the United States and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities. Therefore, termination of the Bayer collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of EYLEA, particularly outside the United States. For additional information regarding our collaboration with Bayer, see "Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties -   If our collaboration with Bayer for EYLEA is terminated, or Bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop EYLEA and commercialize EYLEA outside the United States in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed  " below. 
  Sales of EYLEA recorded by us and Bayer could be reduced by imports from countries where EYLEA may be available at lower prices. 
  Our sales of EYLEA in the United States and Bayer's sales of EYLEA in other countries may be reduced if EYLEA is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). Parallel traders (who may repackage or resize the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the Internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. Under our arrangement with Bayer, pricing and reimbursement for EYLEA outside the United States is the responsibility of Bayer. Prices for EYLEA in territories outside the United States are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. In the United States, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of Canada and Mexico and our sales of EYLEA in the United States may be reduced if EYLEA marketed in those nations is imported into the United States. Parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the EU, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. These types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of EYLEA in a particular market or reduce our or Bayer's sales, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the United States. If such legislation were enacted, our future revenues derived from EYLEA sales could be reduced. 
  
   30 

Table of Contents  

Risks Related to Commercialization of Praluent 
  If we or Sanofi are unable to successfully commercialize Praluent, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 
  We expect that the commercial success of Praluent will depend on many factors, including the following: 
             
    effectiveness of the commercial strategy in and outside the United States for the marketing of Praluent, including pricing strategy and the effectiveness of efforts to obtain, and the timing of obtaining, adequate third-party reimbursements; 
                
    our and Sanofi's ability to differentiate Praluent from Amgen's Repatha and other competitive products; 
                
    the outcome of the pending patent infringement proceedings initiated by Amgen against us and Sanofi (described further in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of this report), and other risks associated with intellectual property of other parties and pending or future litigation relating thereto, as discussed under "Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity" below; 
                
    the ability of patients and providers to obtain and maintain sufficient coverage and reimbursement from third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States and other government and private payers in the United States and foreign jurisdictions;  
                
    payer restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, both in the United States and abroad; 
                
    our and Sanofi's ability to maintain sales of Praluent in the face of competitive products, including Repatha       , as well as product candidates currently in clinical development;  
                
    the results of post-approval studies of (i) Praluent (including the ongoing ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial prospectively assessing the potential of Praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit), whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and (ii) other PCSK9 inhibitors, including Repatha, that could implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so; 
                
    our ability to meet the demand for commercial supplies of Praluent; 
                
    the effect of existing and new health care laws and regulations currently being considered or implemented in the United States, including reporting and disclosure requirements of such laws and regulations and the potential impact of such requirements on physician prescription practices; and 
                
    maintaining and successfully monitoring commercial manufacturing arrangements for Praluent with parties who perform fill/finish or other steps in the manufacture of Praluent to ensure that they meet our standards and those of regulatory authorities, including the FDA, which extensively regulate and monitor pharmaceutical manufacturing facilities. 
     More detailed information about the risks related to the commercialization of Praluent is provided in the risk factors below. 
  We and Sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to Praluent. If we or Sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for Praluent, Praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  We and Sanofi are subject to significant ongoing regulatory obligations and oversight with respect to Praluent for its currently approved indications in the United States, EU, and other countries. If we or Sanofi fail to maintain regulatory compliance for Praluent for its currently approved indications (including because Praluent does not meet the relevant endpoints of any required post-approval studies, such as the ongoing ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial, or for any of the other reasons discussed below under "Risks Related to Maintaining Approval of Our Marketed Products and the Development and Obtaining Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -   Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain  "), Praluent marketing approval may be withdrawn, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. Failure to comply may also subject us to sanctions, product recalls, or withdrawals of previously approved marketing applications. See also "Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply -   If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales  " below. 
  Serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of Praluent could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Serious complications or serious, unexpected side effects in connection with the use of Praluent could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. For additional information about some of these risks, see "Risks Related to Maintaining Approval of Our Marketed Products and the Development and Obtaining Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products -   Serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or  
  
   31 

Table of Contents  

new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition  " below. 
  Sales of Praluent are dependent on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers in the United States and other countries, and changes to such reimbursement may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Sales in the United States of Praluent are dependent, in large part, on the availability and extent of reimbursement from third-party payers, including private payer healthcare and insurance programs, health maintenance organizations, pharmacy benefit management companies, and government programs such as Medicare and Medicaid. Sales of Praluent in other countries are dependent, in large part, on similar reimbursement mechanisms and programs in those countries.  
  Government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. They are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process, including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria. For example, pharmacy benefit management companies often develop formularies to reduce their cost for medications. The breadth of the products covered by formularies varies considerably from one pharmacy benefit management company to another. Failure to be included in such formularies or to achieve favorable formulary status may negatively impact the utilization and market share of Praluent. If Praluent is not included within an adequate number of formularies, adequate reimbursement levels are not provided, the eligible insured patient population for Praluent is limited, or a key payer refuses to provide reimbursement for Praluent in a particular jurisdiction altogether, this could have a material adverse effect on our and Sanofi's ability to commercialize Praluent. 
  In the United States, there also is an increased focus from the federal government and others on analyzing the impact of various regulatory programs on the federal deficit, which could result in increased pressure on federal programs to reduce costs, including limiting federal healthcare expenditures. Economic pressure on state budgets may also have a similar impact. A reduction in the availability or extent of reimbursement from U.S. government programs could have a material adverse effect on the sales of Praluent. Since Praluent is too expensive for most patients to afford without health insurance coverage, if adequate coverage and reimbursement by third-party payers in the United States and other countries, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, is not available, our ability to successfully commercialize Praluent will be materially adversely impacted. Our sales and potential profits and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. See also "Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -   The successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition  " below. 
  The commercial success of Praluent is subject to strong competition. 
  There is significant actual and potential future competition for Praluent (an overview of the competitive landscape for Praluent is provided in Part I, Item 1. "Business - Competition -   Praluent  "). Amgen's PCSK9 program is currently the most advanced of the competitors, having already received regulatory approvals in jurisdictions including the U.S., the EU, and Japan for its PCSK9 inhibitor Repatha. Amgen may obtain marketing approval for Repatha in one or more additional countries before Praluent is approved in those countries. Several other companies, including AstraZeneca and Eli Lilly, also have development programs for antibodies against PCSK9. Alnylam, in collaboration with The Medicines Company, has a clinical program underway with an RNAi molecule against PCSK9. In addition, there are therapeutic products targeting PCSK9 operating through other mechanisms of action in development, including oral products and vaccines. Oral products that lower LDL-C, if approved, may also be competitive with PCSK9 inhibitors, including Praluent. Certain late-stage inhibitors of cholesterylester transfer protein (CETP), such as Merck's anacetrapib, lower LDL-C and may be launched with supporting data from outcomes trials prior to the completion of our own outcomes trial for Praluent. Other oral agents for lowering LDL-C that may potentially compete with Praluent include ETC-1002, which is being developed by Esperion; and gemcabene, which is being developed by     Gemphire. 
  
   32 

Table of Contents  

We rely on our Antibody Collaboration with Sanofi for commercializing Praluent. 
  In accordance with the terms of our Antibody Collaboration with Sanofi, we have elected to co-promote Praluent with Sanofi in the United States. As such, we continue to rely in part on Sanofi's sales and marketing organization in the United States. If we and Sanofi fail to coordinate our United States sales and marketing efforts effectively, sales of Praluent may be materially affected. Sanofi also maintains other important responsibilities relating to Praluent in the United States. For example, Sanofi records product sales and cost of sales for Praluent in the United States, serves as the lead regulatory party (  e.g.  , is responsible for  regulatory filings and negotiations relating to Praluent in the United States), and leads negotiations with payors. We also rely on Sanofi for sales, marketing, and distribution of Praluent in countries outside the United States. If we or Sanofi are unsuccessful in commercializing Praluent, or if Sanofi terminates the Antibody Collaboration with us, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially impaired. We have limited commercial capabilities outside the United States and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for Praluent. Therefore, termination of our Antibody Collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful commercialization of Praluent, particularly outside the United States. For additional information regarding our Antibody Collaboration with Sanofi, see "Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties -   If any of our collaborations with Sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed  " below. 
  Sales of Praluent recorded by Sanofi could be reduced by imports from countries where Praluent may be available at lower prices. 
  Sales of Praluent recorded by Sanofi in the United States and other countries (which impact our share of any profits or losses from the commercialization of Praluent under our Antibody Collaboration with Sanofi and, therefore, our results of operations) may be reduced if Praluent is imported into those countries from lower priced markets, whether legally or illegally (a practice known as parallel trading or reimportation). Parallel traders (who may repackage or resize the original product or sell it through alternative channels such as mail order or the Internet) take advantage of the price differentials between markets arising from factors including sales costs, market conditions (such as intermediate trading stages), tax rates, or national regulation of prices. Under our Antibody Collaboration with Sanofi, pricing and reimbursement for Praluent outside the United States is the responsibility of Sanofi. Prices for Praluent in territories outside the United States are based on local market economics and competition and are likely to differ from country to country. In the United States, prices for pharmaceuticals are generally higher than in the bordering nations of Canada and Mexico and sales of Praluent in the United States that are recorded by Sanofi may be reduced if Praluent marketed in those bordering nations is imported into the United States. Parallel-trading practices also are of particular relevance to the EU, where they have been encouraged by the current regulatory framework. These types of imports may exert pressure on the pricing of Praluent in a particular market or the sales recorded by Sanofi, thereby adversely affecting our results of operations. In addition, there have been proposals to legalize the import of pharmaceuticals from outside the United States.  If such legislation were enacted, our future revenues derived from Praluent sales could be reduced. 
  Risks Related to Maintaining Approval of Our Marketed Products and the Development and Obtaining Approval of Our Product Candidates and New Indications for Our Marketed Products 
  If we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, we will not be able to market or sell them, which would materially and negatively impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  We cannot sell or market products without regulatory approval. If we do not maintain regulatory approval for our marketed products, and obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products, the value of our company and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition will be materially harmed. If we are unable to obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates, or if we are materially delayed in doing so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 
  Obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval for drug products is costly, time-consuming, and highly uncertain. 
  In the United States, we must obtain and maintain approval from the FDA for each drug we intend to sell. Obtaining FDA approval is typically a lengthy and expensive process, and approval is highly uncertain. We cannot predict with certainty if or when we might submit for regulatory approval any of our product candidates currently under development. Any approvals we may obtain may not cover all of the clinical indications for which we are seeking approval. Also, an approval might contain significant limitations in the form of narrow indications, warnings, precautions, or contra-indications with respect to conditions of use. The FDA has substantial discretion in the approval process (including with respect to setting specific conditions for submission) and may either refuse to accept an application for substantive review or may form the opinion after review of an application that the application is insufficient to allow approval of a product candidate. If the FDA does not accept our application for review or approve our application, it may require that we conduct additional clinical, preclinical, or manufacturing validation  
  
   33 

Table of Contents  

studies and submit the data before it will reconsider our application. Depending on the extent of these or any other studies that might be required, approval of any applications that we submit may be delayed significantly, or we may be required to expend more resources. It is also possible that any such additional studies, if performed and completed, may not be considered sufficient by the FDA to make our applications approvable. If any of these outcomes occur, we may be forced to delay or abandon our applications for approval. 
  The FDA may also require us to conduct additional clinical trials after granting approval of a product. Its ability to do so has been enhanced by the Food and Drug Administration Amendments Act of 2007, pursuant to which the FDA has the explicit authority to require postmarketing studies (also referred to as post-approval or Phase 4 studies), labeling changes based on new safety information, and compliance with FDA-approved risk evaluation and mitigation strategies. Post-approval studies, whether conducted by us or by others and whether mandated by regulatory agencies or voluntary, and other data about our marketed products (or data about products similar to our marketed products that implicate an entire class of products or are perceived to do so) may result in changes in product labeling, restrictions on use, product withdrawal or recall, loss of approval, or lower sales of our products. 
  According to the FDA policies under the Prescription Drug User Fee Act, the FDA system of review times for new drugs includes standard review and priority review. Standard review can be accomplished in a ten-month time frame from the time the application is filed by the FDA (filing date), which typically occurs approximately 60 days following submission of the application by the applicant. The FDA has stated the goal to act on 90% of standard new molecular entity (NME) New Drug Application (NDA) and original BLA submissions within 10 months of the filing date. A priority review designation is given to drugs that treat a serious condition and offer major advances in treatment, or provide a treatment where no adequate therapy exists, and may also be afforded to a human drug application based on a priority review voucher. The FDA has stated the goal to act on 90% of priority NME NDA and original BLA submissions within 6 months of the filing date. However, the FDA's review goals are subject to change and the duration of the FDA's review depends on a number of factors, including the number and types of other applications that are submitted to the FDA around the same time period or are pending. Even if any of our applications receives a priority review designation, we may not ultimately be able to obtain approval of our application within a time frame consistent with the FDA's stated review goals or at all, and such designation may not actually lead to a faster development or regulatory review or approval process.  
  The FDA enforces Good Clinical Practices (GCPs) and other regulations through periodic inspections of trial sponsors, clinical research organizations (CROs), principal investigators, and trial sites. If we or any of the third parties conducting our clinical studies are determined to have failed to fully comply with GCPs, the study protocol or applicable regulations, the clinical data generated in those studies may be deemed unreliable. This could result in non-approval of our product candidates by the FDA, or we or the FDA may decide to conduct additional audits or require additional clinical studies, which would delay our development programs, require us to incur additional costs, and could substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Before approving a new drug or biologic product, the FDA requires that the facilities at which the product will be manufactured or advanced through the supply chain be in compliance with current Good Manufacturing Practices, or cGMP, requirements and regulations governing the manufacture, shipment, and storage of the product. These cGMP requirements and regulations are not prescriptive instructions on how to manufacture products, but rather a series of principles that must be observed during manufacturing; as a result, their implementation may not be clearly delineated and may present a challenging task. Manufacturing product candidates in compliance with these regulatory requirements is complex, time-consuming, and expensive. To be successful, our products must be manufactured in compliance with regulatory requirements, and at competitive costs. If we or any of our product collaborators, or third-party manufacturers, product packagers, labelers, or other parties performing steps in the supply chain are unable to maintain regulatory compliance, the FDA can impose regulatory sanctions, including, among other things, refusal to approve a pending application for a new drug or biologic product, or revocation of a pre-existing approval. For example, on October 28, 2016, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter relating to the BLA for sarilumab, which referred to certain deficiencies identified during a routine cGMP inspection of the Sanofi facility in Le Trait, France where sarilumab is filled and finished; satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before the BLA can be approved. For additional information, see "Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply -   If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales.  " Our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed as a result of noncompliance with the requirements and regulations described in this paragraph. 
  In addition to the FDA and other regulatory agency regulations in the United States, we are subject to a variety of foreign regulatory requirements governing human clinical trials, manufacturing, marketing and approval of drugs, and commercial sale and distribution of drugs in foreign countries. The foreign regulatory approval process is similarly likely to be a lengthy and expensive process, the result of which is highly uncertain, and foreign regulatory requirements include all of the risks associated  
  
   34 

Table of Contents  

with FDA approval as well as country specific regulations. In addition, actions by a regulatory agency in a country or region with respect to a product candidate may have an impact on the approval process for that product candidate in another country or region. Foreign regulatory authorities often also have the authority to require post-approval studies, which involve various risks similar to those described above. Whether or not we obtain FDA approval for a product in the United States, we must obtain approval of the product by the comparable regulatory authorities in foreign countries before we can conduct clinical trials of or market that product or any other product in those countries. 
  Preclinical and clinical studies required for our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products are expensive and time-consuming, and their outcome is highly uncertain. If any such studies are delayed or yield unfavorable results, regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications of our marketed products may be delayed or become unobtainable. 
  As described above, we must conduct extensive testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products before we can obtain regulatory approval to market and sell them. We need to conduct both preclinical animal testing and human clinical trials. Conducting such studies is a lengthy, time-consuming, and expensive process. These tests and trials may not achieve favorable results for many reasons, including, among others, failure of the product candidate to demonstrate safety or efficacy, the development of serious or life-threatening adverse events (or side effects) caused by or connected with exposure to the product candidate, difficulty in enrolling and maintaining subjects in a clinical trial, lack of sufficient supplies of the product candidate or comparator drug, and the failure of clinical investigators, trial monitors, contractors, consultants, or trial subjects to comply with the trial plan, protocol, or applicable regulations related to Good Laboratory Practices (GLPs) or GCPs. A clinical trial may fail because it did not include and retain a sufficient number of patients to detect the endpoint being measured or reach statistical significance. A clinical trial may also fail because the dose(s) of the investigational drug included in the trial were either too low or too high to determine the optimal effect of the investigational drug in the disease setting. 
  We will need to reevaluate any drug candidate that does not test favorably and either conduct new studies, which are expensive and time consuming, or abandon that drug development program. If preclinical testing yields unfavorable results, product candidates may not advance to clinical trials.  The failure of clinical trials to demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of our clinical candidates for the desired indication(s) would preclude the successful development of those candidates for such indication(s), in which event our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 
  Successful development of our current and future product candidates is uncertain. 
  Only a small minority of all research and development programs ultimately result in commercially successful drugs. Clinical trials may not demonstrate statistically sufficient effectiveness and safety to obtain the requisite regulatory approvals for these product candidates in these indications. Many companies in the biopharmaceutical industry, including our company, have suffered significant setbacks in clinical trials, even after promising results have been obtained in earlier trials. In a number of instances, we have terminated the development of product candidates due to a lack of or only modest effectiveness, and clinical trials evaluating our product candidates failed to meet the relevant endpoints. For example, in September 2016, we reported that in the Phase 2 study evaluating aflibercept co-formulated with rinucumab, an antibody to Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor Beta (PDGFR-beta), in patients with wet AMD, the combination therapy did not demonstrate an improvement in best corrected visual acuity compared to intravitreal aflibercept injection monotherapy at 12 weeks. Moreover, even if we obtain positive results from preclinical testing or clinical trials, we may not achieve the same success in future trials, or the FDA and analogous foreign regulatory authorities may deem the results insufficient for an approval. For instance, based on the results of three Phase 3 studies, we submitted a supplemental BLA filing to the FDA seeking approval of ARCALYST for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy. In May 2012, the Arthritis Advisory Committee of the FDA voted to recommend against approval of ARCALYST for the prevention of gout flares in patients initiating uric acid-lowering drug therapy and, in July 2012, we received a Complete Response Letter from the FDA requesting additional information, including clinical data, as well as additional CMC information related to a proposed new dosage form. We have discontinued development of ARCALYST for gout. 
  Many of our clinical trials are conducted under the oversight of Independent Data Monitoring Committees (IDMCs). These independent oversight bodies are made up of external experts who review the progress of ongoing clinical trials, including available safety and efficacy data, and make recommendations concerning a trial's continuation, modification, or termination based on interim, unblinded data. Any of our ongoing clinical trials may be discontinued or amended in response to recommendations made by responsible IDMCs based on their review of such interim trial results. For example, in September 2009, a Phase 3 trial that was evaluating ZALTRAP as a first-line treatment for metastatic pancreatic cancer in combination with gemcitabine was discontinued at the recommendation of an IDMC after a planned analysis of interim efficacy data determined that the trial would not meet its efficacy endpoint. The recommended termination of any of our ongoing late-stage clinical trials by an IDMC could negatively impact the future development of our product candidate(s), and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 
  
   35 

Table of Contents  

We are studying our antibody candidates in a wide variety of indications in clinical trials. Many of these trials are exploratory studies designed to evaluate the safety profile of these compounds and to identify what diseases and uses, if any, are best suited for these product candidates. These product candidates may not demonstrate the requisite efficacy and/or safety profile to support continued development for some or all of the indications that are being, or are planned to be, studied, which would diminish our clinical "pipeline" and could negatively affect our future prospects and the value of our company. 
  Serious complications or side effects in connection with the use of our products and in clinical trials for our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products could cause our regulatory approvals to be revoked or limited or lead to delay or discontinuation of development of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, which could severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  During the conduct of clinical trials, patients report changes in their health, including illnesses, injuries, and discomforts, to their study doctor. Often, it is not possible to determine whether or not the drug candidate being studied caused these conditions. Various illnesses, injuries, and discomforts have been reported from time-to-time during clinical trials of our product candidates and new indications for our marketed products. It is possible that as we test our drug candidates or new indications in larger, longer, and more extensive clinical programs, or as use of these drugs becomes more widespread if they receive regulatory approval, illnesses, injuries, and discomforts that were observed in earlier trials, as well as conditions that did not occur or went undetected in previous trials, will be reported by patients. Many times, side effects are only detectable after investigational drugs are tested in large-scale, Phase 3 clinical trials or, in some cases, after they are made available to patients after approval. If additional clinical experience indicates that any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products has many side effects or causes serious or life-threatening side effects, the development of the product candidate may be delayed or fail, or, if the product candidate has received regulatory approval, such approval may be revoked, which would severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  EYLEA is being studied in additional indications, and aflibercept is being studied as a combination product. There are many potential safety concerns associated with significant blockade of VEGF that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize aflibercept. These serious and potentially life-threatening risks, based on clinical and preclinical experience of VEGF inhibitors, include bleeding, intestinal perforation, hypertension, proteinuria, congestive heart failure, heart attack, and stroke. Other VEGF blockers have reported side effects that became evident only after large-scale trials or after marketing approval when large numbers of patients were treated. There are risks inherent in the intravitreal administration of drugs like aflibercept (such as intraocular inflammation, sterile and culture positive endophthalmitis, corneal decomposition, retinal detachment, and retinal tear), which can cause injury to the eye and other complications. For example, in our Phase 3 trials of EYLEA in wet AMD, the most frequent ocular adverse events were conjunctival hemorrhage, macular degeneration, eye pain, retinal hemorrhage, and vitreous floaters. These and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of aflibercept. 
  The potential of Praluent to demonstrate cardiovascular benefit is being prospectively assessed in the ongoing ODYSSEY OUTCOMES trial. There is no guarantee that Praluent will meet the relevant endpoints of this trial. In addition, there are potential  safety concerns associated with PCSK9 inhibitor antibodies such as Praluent that may limit our ability to further successfully develop and/or commercialize Praluent, including new-onset diabetes mellitus, injection-site reactions, hypersensitivity, immunogenicity, demyelination, and changes in neurocognitive function. There also are risks inherent in subcutaneous injections, including subcutaneous injections with Praluent, such as injection-site reactions (including redness, itching, swelling, pain, and tenderness) and other side effects. These and other complications or side effects could harm further development and/or commercialization of Praluent. 
  Our product candidates in development are recombinant proteins that could cause an immune response, resulting in the creation of harmful or neutralizing antibodies against the therapeutic protein. 
  In addition to the safety, efficacy, manufacturing, and regulatory hurdles faced by our product candidates, the administration of recombinant proteins frequently causes an immune response, resulting in the creation of antibodies against the therapeutic protein. The antibodies can have no effect or can totally neutralize the effectiveness of the protein, or require that higher doses be used to obtain a therapeutic effect. In some cases, the antibody can cross-react with the patient's own proteins, resulting in an "auto-immune" type disease. Whether antibodies will be created can often not be predicted from preclinical or clinical experiments, and their detection or appearance is often delayed, so neutralizing antibodies may be detected at a later date, in some cases even after pivotal clinical trials have been completed. 
  
   36 

Table of Contents  

We may be unable to formulate or manufacture our product candidates in a way that is suitable for clinical or commercial use, which would delay or prevent continued development of such candidates and/or receipt of regulatory approval or commercial sale, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  If we are unable to continue to develop suitable product formulations or manufacturing processes to support large-scale clinical testing of our product candidates, including our antibody candidates, we may be unable to supply necessary materials for our clinical trials, which would delay or prevent the development of our product candidates. Similarly, if we are unable, directly or through our collaborators or third parties, to supply sufficient quantities of our products or develop formulations of our product candidates suitable for commercial use, we will be unable to obtain regulatory approval for those product candidates. 
  Some of our products and, if approved, product candidates may be used with drug delivery devices, which have their own regulatory and other risks. 
  Some of our products (such as Praluent) are used and, if approved, some of our product candidates may be used in combination with a drug delivery device, including a pre-filled syringe, patch pump, auto-injector, or other delivery system. The success of our product candidates may depend to a significant extent on the performance of such devices, some of which may be novel or comprised of complex components. Given the increased complexity of the review process when approval of the product and device is sought under a single marketing application, our product candidates used with such drug delivery devices may be substantially delayed in receiving regulatory approval or may not be approved at all. In addition, some of these drug delivery devices may be provided by single-source, third-party providers or our collaborators. In any such case, we may be dependent on the sustained cooperation of those third-party providers or collaborators to supply the devices; to conduct the studies required for approval or clearance by the applicable regulatory agencies; and to continue to meet the applicable regulatory and other requirements to maintain approval or clearance once it has been received. Failure to successfully develop or supply the devices, delays in or failure of the studies conducted by us, our collaborators, or third-party providers, or failure of our company, our collaborators, or the third-party providers to obtain or maintain regulatory approval or clearance of the devices could result in increased development costs, delays in or failure to obtain regulatory approval, and associated delays in a product candidate reaching the market. Loss of regulatory approval or clearance of a device that is used with our product may also result in the removal of our product from the market. Further, failure to successfully develop or supply these devices, or to gain or maintain their approval, could adversely affect sales of the related products.    
  Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity 
  If we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed. 
  Our business requires using sensitive and proprietary technology and other information that we protect as trade secrets. We seek to prevent improper disclosure of these trade secrets through confidentiality agreements. If our trade secrets are improperly disclosed, by our current or former employees, our collaborators, or otherwise, it would help our competitors and adversely affect our business. We will be able to protect our proprietary rights only to the extent that our proprietary technologies and other information are covered by valid and enforceable patents or are effectively maintained as trade secrets. The patent position of biotechnology companies, including our company, involves complex legal and factual questions and, therefore, enforceability cannot be predicted with certainty. Our patents may be challenged, invalidated, held to be unenforceable, or circumvented. Patent applications filed outside the United States may be challenged by other parties, for example, by filing third-party observations that argue against patentability or an opposition. Such opposition proceedings are increasingly common in the EU and are costly to defend. For example, our European Patent No. 1,360,287 was, and our European Patent No. 2,264,163 is, the subject of opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office, as described in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of this report. We have pending patent applications in the United States Patent and Trademark Office, the European Patent Office, and the patent offices of other foreign jurisdictions, and it is likely that we will need to defend patents from challenges by others from time to time in the future. Certain of our U.S. patents may also be challenged by parties who file a request for post-grant review or inter partes reexamination under the America Invents Act of 2011 or ex parte reexamination. Post-grant proceedings are increasingly common in the United States and are costly to defend. Our patent rights may not provide us with a proprietary position or competitive advantages against competitors. Furthermore, even if the outcome is favorable to us, the enforcement of our intellectual property rights can be extremely expensive and time consuming. 
  
   37 

Table of Contents  

We may be restricted in our development, manufacturing, and/or commercialization activities by patents or other proprietary rights of others, and could be subject to damage awards if we are found to have infringed such patents or rights. 
  Our commercial success depends significantly on our ability to operate without infringing the patents and other proprietary rights of others. Other parties may allege that they own blocking patents to our products in clinical development or even to products that have received regulatory approval and are being or have been commercialized, either because they claim to hold proprietary rights to the composition of a product or the way it is manufactured or the way it is used. Moreover, other parties may allege that they have blocking patents to antibody products made using our   VelocImmune   technology, or any other of our technologies, either because of the way the antibodies are discovered or produced or because of a proprietary composition covering an antibody or the antibody's target. 
  We have been in the past, are currently, and may in the future be involved in patent litigation and other proceedings involving patents and other intellectual property. For example, we are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by Amgen against us and Sanofi relating to Praluent, as described in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of this report. In addition, we are currently party to patent infringement proceedings initiated by us relating to our European Patent No. 1,360,287, our European Patent No. 2,264,163, and our U.S. Patent No. 8,502,018, all of which concern genetically altered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse, as described in Part I, Item 3. "Legal Proceedings" of this report.   
  We are aware of additional patents and pending patent applications owned by others that claim antibodies to PCSK9 and methods of treating hypercholesterolemia with such antibodies. We are also aware of patents and pending patent applications owned by others that respectively claim antibodies to IL-6R and methods of treating conditions including rheumatoid arthritis and uveitis with such antibodies; and antibodies to IL-4R and methods of treating conditions including atopic dermatitis and asthma with such antibodies. In addition to Praluent, our late-stage antibody-based pipeline includes sarilumab, an antibody to IL-6R, intended for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis and non-infectious uveitis; Dupixent (dupilumab), an antibody to IL-4R, intended for the treatment of atopic dermatitis, asthma, nasal polyps, and eosinophilic esophagitis; REGN2222, an antibody targeting RSV-F; and fasinumab, an antibody to NGF. With respect to Dupixent, we are aware of certain patents owned by Immunex Corporation, a wholly owned subsidiary of Amgen. These patents include U.S. Patent No. 8,679,487 and European Patent No. 2,292,665 (the '665 Patent) and are generally directed to antibodies that bind to IL-4R. On September 30, 2016, Sanofi initiated a revocation proceeding to invalidate the U.K. counterpart of the '665 Patent in the United Kingdom. At the joint request of the parties to the revocation proceeding, the U.K. Patents Court ordered on January 30, 2017 that the revocation action be stayed pending the final determination of the currently pending European Patent Office opposition proceedings initiated by us and Sanofi in relation to the '665 Patent. The original patent term of the Immunex patents is set to expire in 2021. 
  Although we do not believe that any of our late-stage antibody product candidates infringes any valid claim in these patents or patent applications,     these other parties could initiate lawsuits for patent infringement and assert that their patents are valid and cover our late-stage antibody product candidates, similar to the patent infringement proceedings initiated by Amgen referred to above. Further, we are aware of a number of patent applications of others that, if granted with claims as currently drafted, may cover our current or planned activities. It could be determined that our products and/or actions in manufacturing or selling our product candidates infringe such patents. 
  Patent holders could assert claims against us for damages and seek to prevent us from manufacturing, selling, or developing our products or product candidates, and a court may find that we are infringing validly issued patents of others. In the event that the manufacture, use, or sale of any of our products or product candidates infringes on the patents or violates other proprietary rights of others, we may be prevented from pursuing product development, manufacturing, and commercialization of those drugs and may be required to pay costly damages. In addition, in the event that we assert our patent rights against other parties that we believe are infringing our patent rights, such parties may challenge the validity of our patents and we may become the target of litigation, which may result in an outcome that is unfavorable to us. Any of these adverse developments may materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. In any event, legal disputes are likely to be costly and time consuming to defend. 
  We seek to obtain licenses to patents when, in our judgment, such licenses are needed or advisable. If any licenses are required, we may not be able to obtain such licenses on commercially reasonable terms, if at all. The failure to obtain any such license could prevent us from developing or commercializing any one or more of our products or product candidates, which could severely harm our business. 
  
   38 

Table of Contents  

Loss or limitation of patent rights, and new regulatory pathways for biosimilar competition, could reduce the duration of market exclusivity for our products. 
  In the pharmaceutical and biotechnology industries, the majority of an innovative product's commercial value is usually realized during the period in which it has market exclusivity. In the United States and some other countries, when market exclusivity expires and generic versions of a product are approved and marketed, there usually are very substantial and rapid declines in the product's sales. 
  If our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing in the United States or elsewhere, market exclusivity for those products will generally be based upon patent rights and/or certain regulatory forms of exclusivity. As described above under "  If we cannot protect the confidentiality of our trade secrets or our patents are insufficient to protect our proprietary rights, our business and competitive position will be harmed,  " the scope and enforceability of our patent rights may vary from country to country. The failure to obtain patent and other intellectual property rights, or limitations on the use, or the loss, of such rights could materially harm us. Absent patent protection or regulatory exclusivity for our products, it is possible, both in the United States and elsewhere, that generic and/or biosimilar versions of those products may be approved and marketed, which would likely result in substantial and rapid reductions in revenues from sales of those products. 
  Under the federal PPACA, enacted in 2010, there is an abbreviated path in the United States for regulatory approval of products that are demonstrated to be "biosimilar" or "interchangeable" with an FDA-approved biological product. The PPACA provides a regulatory mechanism that allows for FDA approval of biologic drugs that are similar to (but not generic copies of) innovative drugs on the basis of less extensive data than is required by a full BLA. Under this regulation, an application for approval of a biosimilar may be filed four years after approval of the innovator product. However, qualified innovative biological products will receive 12 years of regulatory exclusivity, meaning that the FDA may not approve a biosimilar version until 12 years after the innovative biological product was first approved by the FDA. However, the term of regulatory exclusivity may not remain at 12 years in the United States and could be shortened. 
  A number of jurisdictions outside of the United States have also established abbreviated pathways for regulatory approval of biological products that are biosimilar to earlier versions of biological products. For example, the EU has had an established regulatory pathway for biosimilars since 2005. 
  The increased likelihood of biosimilar competition has increased the risk of loss of innovators' market exclusivity. Due to this risk, and uncertainties regarding patent protection, if our late-stage product candidates or other clinical candidates are approved for marketing, it is not possible to predict the length of market exclusivity for any particular product with certainty based solely on the expiration of the relevant patent(s) or the current forms of regulatory exclusivity. It is also not possible to predict changes in United States regulatory law that might reduce biological product regulatory exclusivity. The loss of market exclusivity for a product would likely materially and negatively affect revenues from product sales of that product and thus our financial results and condition. 
  Risks Related to Manufacturing and Supply 
  We rely on limited internal and contracted manufacturing and supply chain capacity, which could result in our being unable to continue to successfully commercialize     EYLEA, to successfully commercialize Praluent and, if approved, our product candidates or other indications for our marketed products, and to advance our clinical pipeline. 
  Our manufacturing facilities would be inadequate to produce the active pharmaceutical ingredients of (a) our current marketed products, including EYLEA and Praluent, and (b) our antibody product candidates in sufficient clinical quantities if our clinical pipeline advances as planned. In addition to expanding our internal capacity, we intend to rely on our collaborators, as well as contract manufacturers, to produce commercial quantities of drug material needed for commercialization of our products to the extent such quantities are not manufactured at our own facility. As we increase our production in anticipation of potential regulatory approval for our late-stage antibody product candidates, our current manufacturing capacity will likely not be sufficient, and we may depend on our collaborators or contract manufacturers, to produce adequate quantities of drug material for both commercial and clinical purposes. We rely entirely on other parties and our collaborators for filling and finishing services. Generally, in order for other parties to perform any step in the manufacturing and supply chain, we must transfer technology to the other party, which can be time consuming and may not be successfully accomplished without considerable cost and expense, or at all. We will have to depend on these other parties to perform effectively on a timely basis and to comply with regulatory requirements. If for any reason they are unable to do so, and as a result we are unable to directly or through other parties manufacture and supply sufficient commercial and clinical quantities of our products on acceptable terms, or if we should encounter delays or other difficulties in our relationships with our collaborators, contract manufacturers, or other parties involved in our supply chain which adversely affect the timely manufacture and supply of our products or product candidates, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be materially harmed. 
  
   39 

Table of Contents  

Expanding our manufacturing capacity will be costly and we may be unsuccessful in doing so in a timely manner, which could delay or prevent the launch and successful commercialization of our marketed products and late-stage product candidates or other indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing and could jeopardize our current and future clinical development programs. 
  We have commenced construction of additional manufacturing space at our Rensselaer, New York site to increase our manufacturing capacity. In addition, we have acquired and are renovating a 400,000 square foot facility in Limerick, Ireland to expand our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain. In the future, we may lease, operate, purchase, or construct additional facilities to conduct expanded manufacturing activities. Expanding our manufacturing capacity to supply commercial quantities of the active pharmaceutical ingredients for our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates if they are approved for marketing, and to supply clinical drug material to support the continued growth of our clinical programs, will require substantial additional expenditures and various regulatory approvals and permits. In addition, the Limerick, Ireland facility remains subject to securing certain governmental permits, and there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain the remaining required permits in the contemplated timeframe, or at all. Further, we will need to hire and train significant numbers of employees and managerial personnel to staff our expanding manufacturing and supply chain operations. Start-up costs can be large, and scale-up entails significant risks related to process development and manufacturing yields. In addition, we may face difficulties or delays in developing or acquiring the necessary production equipment and technology to manufacture sufficient quantities of our product candidates at reasonable costs and in compliance with applicable regulatory requirements. The FDA and analogous foreign regulatory authorities must determine that our existing and any expanded manufacturing facilities comply, or continue to comply, with cGMP requirements for both clinical and commercial production and license them, or continue to license them, accordingly, and such facilities must also comply with applicable environmental, safety, and other governmental permitting requirements. We may not successfully expand or establish sufficient manufacturing capabilities or manufacture our products economically or in compliance with cGMPs and other regulatory requirements, and we and our collaborators may not be able to build or procure additional capacity in the required timeframe to meet commercial demand for our late-stage product candidates if they receive regulatory approval, and to continue to meet the requirements of our clinical programs. This would interfere with our efforts to successfully commercialize EYLEA, Praluent, and ARCALYST and could also delay or require us to discontinue one or more of our clinical development programs. As a result, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition could be materially harmed. 
  Our ability to manufacture products may be impaired if any of our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain, are found to infringe patents of others. 
  Our ability to continue to manufacture EYLEA, Praluent, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST in our Rensselaer, New York facilities and our ability to manufacture our marketed products at additional facilities (such as the Limerick, Ireland facility) in the future, or to utilize third parties to produce our products, to supply raw materials or other products, or to perform fill/finish services or other steps in our manufacture and supply chain, depends on our and their ability to operate without infringing the patents or other intellectual property rights of others. Other parties may allege that our manufacturing activities, or the activities of third parties involved in our manufacture and supply chain (which may be located in jurisdictions outside the United States), infringe patents or other intellectual property rights. A judicial or regulatory decision in favor of one or more parties making such allegations could directly or indirectly preclude the manufacture of our products to which those intellectual property rights apply on a temporary or permanent basis, which could materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  If sales of EYLEA or Praluent do not meet the levels currently expected, or if the launch of any of our product candidates is delayed or unsuccessful, we may face costs related to excess inventory or unused capacity at our manufacturing facilities and at the facilities of third parties. 
  We have large-scale manufacturing operations in Rensselaer, New York and are in the process of building a large-scale manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland. We use our manufacturing facilities primarily to produce bulk product for commercial supply of our marketed products and clinical and preclinical candidates for ourselves and our collaborations. We also plan to use such facilities to produce bulk product for commercial supply of new indications of our marketed products and new product candidates if they are approved for marketing. If our clinical candidates are discontinued or their clinical development is delayed, if the launch of new indications for our marketed products or new product candidates is delayed or does not occur, or if such products are launched and the launch is unsuccessful or the product is subsequently recalled or marketing approval is rescinded, we may have to absorb one hundred percent of related overhead costs and inefficiencies, as well as similar costs of third-party contract manufacturers performing services for us. In addition, if we experience excess inventory, it may be necessary to write down or even write off such excess inventory, which could adversely affect our operating results. 
  
   40 

Table of Contents  

Third-party service or supply failures, or other failures, business interruptions, or other disasters affecting our manufacturing facilities in Rensselaer, New York or the facilities of any other party participating in the supply chain, would adversely affect our ability to supply our products. 
  We currently manufacture all of our bulk drug materials at our manufacturing facilities in Rensselaer, New York. We would be unable to manufacture these materials if our Rensselaer facilities were to cease production due to regulatory requirements or actions, business interruptions, labor shortages or disputes, contaminations, fire, natural disasters, acts of war or terrorism, or other problems. 
  Many of our products and product candidates are very difficult to manufacture. As our products and product candidates are biologics, they require processing steps that are more difficult than those required for most chemical pharmaceuticals. Accordingly, multiple steps are needed to control the manufacturing processes. Problems with these manufacturing processes, even minor deviations from the normal process or from the materials used in the manufacturing process (which may not be detectable by us in a timely manner), could lead to product defects or manufacturing failures, resulting in lot failures, product recalls, product liability claims, and insufficient inventory. Also, the complexity of our manufacturing process may make it difficult, time-consuming, and expensive to transfer our technology to our collaborators or contract manufacturers. 
  Also, certain raw materials or other products necessary for the manufacture and formulation of our marketed products and product candidates, some of which are difficult to source, are provided by single-source unaffiliated third-party suppliers. In addition, we rely on certain third parties to perform filling, finishing, distribution, laboratory testing, and other services related to the manufacture of our marketed products and product candidates, and to supply various raw materials and other products. We would be unable to obtain these raw materials, other products, or services for an indeterminate period of time if any of these third parties were to cease or interrupt production or otherwise fail to supply these materials, products, or services to us for any reason, including due to regulatory requirements or actions (including recalls), adverse financial developments at or affecting the supplier, failure by the supplier to comply with cGMPs, contamination, business interruptions, or labor shortages or disputes. In any such circumstances, we may not be able to engage a backup or alternative supplier or service provider in a timely manner or at all. This, in turn, could materially and adversely affect our ability to manufacture or supply marketed products and product candidates, which could materially and adversely affect our business and future prospects. 
  Certain of the raw materials required in the manufacture and the formulation of our product candidates may be derived from biological sources, including mammalian tissues, bovine serum, and human serum albumin. There are certain European regulatory restrictions on using these biological source materials. If we are required to substitute for these sources to comply with European regulatory requirements, our clinical development or commercial activities may be delayed or interrupted. 
  If we fail to meet the stringent requirements of governmental regulation in the manufacture of drug products or product candidates, we could incur substantial remedial costs, delays in the development or approval of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products and/or in their commercial launch if they obtain regulatory approval, and a reduction in sales. 
  We and our third-party providers are required to maintain compliance with cGMPs, and are subject to inspections by the FDA or comparable agencies in other jurisdictions to confirm such compliance. Changes of suppliers or modifications of methods of manufacturing may require amending our application(s) to the FDA or such comparable foreign agencies and acceptance of the change by the FDA or such comparable foreign agencies prior to release of product(s). Because we produce multiple products and product candidates at our facility in Rensselaer, New York, including EYLEA, Praluent, ZALTRAP, and ARCALYST, there are increased risks associated with cGMP compliance. Our inability, or the inability of our third-party fill/finish or other service providers, to demonstrate ongoing cGMP compliance could require us to engage in lengthy and expensive remediation efforts, withdraw or recall product, halt or interrupt clinical trials, and/or interrupt commercial supply of any marketed products, and could also delay or prevent our obtaining regulatory approval for our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products. For example, on October 28, 2016, the FDA issued a Complete Response Letter relating to the BLA for sarilumab, which referred to certain deficiencies identified during a routine cGMP inspection of the Sanofi facility in Le Trait, France where sarilumab and dupilumab are filled and finished; satisfactory resolution of these deficiencies is required before the BLA can be approved. While the FDA subsequently reclassified the Sanofi Le Trait fill-and-finish facility as "acceptable" based on review of responses to an FDA Form 483, as well as proposed corrective actions, there is no guarantee that Sanofi will be able to resolve those deficiencies timely or at all. Any delay, interruption, or other issue that arises in the manufacture, fill/finish, packaging, or storage of any drug product or product candidate as a result of a failure of our facilities or the facilities or operations of third parties to pass any regulatory agency inspection or maintain cGMP compliance could significantly impair our ability to develop, obtain approval for, and successfully commercialize our products, which would substantially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. Any finding of non-compliance could also increase our costs, cause us to delay the development of our product candidates, result in delay in our obtaining, or our not obtaining, regulatory approval of product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, and cause us to lose revenue from any marketed products, which could be seriously detrimental to our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  
   41 

Table of Contents  

Risks Related to Commercialization of Products 
  We may be unsuccessful in continuing the commercialization of our marketed products or in commercializing our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, which would materially and adversely affect our business, profitability, and future prospects. 
  Even if clinical trials demonstrate the safety and effectiveness of any of our product candidates for a specific disease and the necessary regulatory approvals are obtained, the commercial success of any of our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products will depend upon, among other things, their acceptance by patients, the medical community, and third-party payers and on our and our collaborators' ability to successfully manufacture, market and distribute those products in substantial commercial quantities or to establish and manage the required infrastructure to do so, including large-scale information technology systems and a large-scale distribution network. Establishing and maintaining sales, marketing, and distribution capabilities are expensive and time-consuming. Even if we obtain regulatory approval for our product candidates or new indications, if they are not successfully commercialized, we will not be able to recover the significant investment we have made in developing such products and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be severely harmed.  
  The commercial success of our products may also be adversely affected by guidelines or recommendations to healthcare providers, administrators, payers, and patient communities that result in decreased use of our products. Such guidelines or recommendations may be published not only by governmental agencies, but also professional societies, practice management groups, private foundations, and other interested parties. 
  Our product candidates are delivered either by intravenous infusion or by intravitreal or subcutaneous injections, which are generally less well received by patients than tablet or capsule delivery and this could adversely affect the commercial success of those products if they receive marketing approval. 
  For a description of additional risks relating specifically to the commercialization of EYLEA and Praluent, see above under "Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA" and "Risks Related to Commercialization of Praluent," respectively. 
  Our marketed products are subject to significant competition, and our product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if any are approved for marketing, may face significant competition. 
  There is substantial competition in the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries from biotechnology, pharmaceutical, and chemical companies. Many of our competitors have substantially greater research, preclinical and clinical product development and manufacturing capabilities, as well as financial, marketing, and human resources, than we do. Our smaller competitors may also enhance their competitive position if they acquire or discover patentable inventions, form collaborative arrangements, or merge with large pharmaceutical companies. Even if we achieve commercialization of our product candidates, our competitors have achieved, and may continue to achieve, product commercialization before our products are approved for marketing and sale. 
  The market for eye disease products is very competitive, as described in greater detail above under "Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA -   The commercial success of EYLEA is subject to strong competition  ." 
  There is also significant actual and potential future competition for Praluent, the PCSK9 antibody we are developing and commercializing in collaboration with Sanofi, as described in greater detail above under "Risks Related to Commercialization of Praluent -   The commercial success of Praluent is subject to strong competition  ."  
  Our earlier-stage clinical candidates in development are all fully human monoclonal antibodies, which were generated using our   VelocImmune   technology. Our antibody generation technologies and earlier-stage clinical candidates face competition from many pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies using various technologies. 
  We are aware of several pharmaceutical and biotechnology companies actively engaged in the research and development of antibody products against targets that are also the targets of our early- and late-stage product candidates (an overview of the competitive landscape for our antibody programs that are in late-stage clinical development is provided in Part I, Item 1. "Business - Competition -   Monoclonal Antibodies in Development  "). For example, Pfizer (in collaboration with Eli Lilly) is developing an antibody product candidate against NGF. Genentech/Roche is marketing an antibody against IL-6R (Actemra) for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis that would compete with sarilumab, our IL-6R antibody, if it is approved. In addition, several other companies, including Johnson   Johnson (in collaboration with GlaxoSmithKline), Alder (in collaboration with Vitaeris), Ablynx, and R-Pharm, have antibodies against IL-6 or IL-6R in clinical development.  A number of companies are developing antibodies that, if approved, may compete with dupilumab, our IL-4R antibody, if it is approved, including Roche (an antibody against IL-13), AstraZeneca (antibodies against IL-4R, IL-5R, and IL-13), Novartis (a combination antibody against IL-4 and IL-13), and Amgen (in collaboration with AstraZeneca) (an antibody against thymic stromal lymphopoietin, or TSLP). GlaxoSmithKline's Nucala and Teva's Cinqair, both of which are antibodies against IL-5, may also compete with dupilumab, if dupilumab is approved. For RSV, AstraZeneca commercializes an antibody against RSV-F protein, Synagis, and other antibodies are in clinical development,  
  
   42 

Table of Contents  

including by AstraZeneca (in collaboration with AIMM Therapeutics). We are also aware of several companies developing or marketing small molecules that may compete with our antibody product candidates in various indications, if such product candidates obtain regulatory approval in those indications.  For sarilumab, oral, small-molecule JAK inhibitors such as Pfizer's Xeljanz and Eli Lilly's baricitinib may pose a competitive threat in the rheumatoid arthritis indication if sarilumab is approved in such indication. For dupilumab, Pfizer's Eucrisa may be a competitor in the atopic dermatitis indication if dupilumab is approved in such indication. 
  If any of these or other competitors announces a successful clinical study involving a product that may be competitive with one of our product candidates or the grant of marketing approval by a regulatory agency for a competitive product, such developments may have an adverse effect on our business or future prospects. In addition, the first product to reach the market in a therapeutic area is often at a significant competitive advantage relative to later entrants to the market. Accordingly, the relative speed with which we, or our collaborators, can develop our products candidates, complete the clinical trials and approval processes, and, if such product candidates are approved for marketing and sale, supply commercial quantities to the market is expected to continue to be an important competitive factor. Due to the uncertainties associated with developing biopharmaceutical products, we may not be the first to obtain marketing approval for a product against any particular target, which may have a material adverse effect on our business or future prospects. 
  The successful commercialization of our marketed products, as well as our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products, if approved, will depend on obtaining and maintaining coverage and reimbursement for use of these products from third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, and these payers may not cover or adequately reimburse for use of our products or may do so at levels that make our products uncompetitive and/or unprofitable, which would materially harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Our future revenues and profitability will be adversely affected in a material manner if United States and foreign governmental payers, private third-party insurers and payers (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies), and other third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid, do not adequately defray or reimburse the cost of our products to the patients. If these entities do not provide coverage and reimbursement with respect to our products or provide an insufficient level of coverage and reimbursement, our products may be too costly for many patients to afford them, and physicians may not prescribe them. Many third-party payers cover only selected drugs, or may prefer selected drugs, making drugs that are not covered or preferred by such payers more expensive for patients. Third-party payers may also require prior authorization for reimbursement, or require failure on another type of treatment before covering a particular drug, particularly with respect to higher-priced drugs. As our currently marketed products and product candidates are biologics, bringing them to market may cost more than bringing traditional, small-molecule drugs to market due to the complexity associated with the research, development, production, supply and regulatory review of such products. Given cost sensitivities in many health care systems, our currently marketed products and product candidates are likely to be subject to continued pricing pressures, which may have an adverse impact on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  In addition, in order for private insurance and governmental payers (such as Medicare and Medicaid in the United States) to reimburse the cost of our products, we must, among other things, maintain our FDA registration and our National Drug Code, maintain formulary approval by pharmacy benefits managers, and maintain recognition by insurance companies and CMS. There is no certainty that we will be able to obtain or maintain the applicable requirements for reimbursement (including relevant formulary coverage) of our current and future products, which may have a material adverse effect on our business. 
  Government and other third-party payers (including pharmacy benefit management companies) are challenging the prices charged for healthcare products and increasingly limiting, and attempting to limit, both coverage and level of reimbursement for prescription drugs, such as by requiring outcomes-based or other pay-for-performance pricing arrangements. They are also imposing restrictions on eligible patient populations and the reimbursement process (including by means of required prior authorizations and utilization management criteria). In March 2010, the PPACA and a related reconciliation bill were enacted in the United States. This legislation imposes cost-containment and other measures that are likely to adversely affect the amount of reimbursement for our current and future products. The full effects of this legislation depend on a number of factors, many of which are beyond our control, including new regulations and guidance issued by CMS and other federal and state agencies. Some states are also considering legislation that would control the prices of drugs, and state Medicaid programs are increasingly requesting manufacturers to pay supplemental rebates and requiring prior authorization by the state program for use of any drug for which supplemental rebates are not being paid. It is likely that federal and state legislatures and health agencies will continue to focus on additional health care reform in the future that will impose additional constraints on prices and reimbursements for our products. 
  There is a risk that third-party payers, including Medicare and Medicaid in the United States, may not cover and/or reimburse our current and future products at levels required for us to successfully commercialize these products. Any limitation imposed by third-party payers on the use of our products if they are approved for marketing, or any action or decision by CMS or analogous foreign agencies or authorities which for any reason denies coverage or reimbursement for our products or provides coverage or reimbursement at levels that harm our products' competitiveness or leads to lower prices for those products, will have a material negative effect on our ability to sustain profitability. In certain foreign countries, pricing, coverage, and level of reimbursement  
  
   43 

Table of Contents  

of prescription drugs are subject to governmental control, and we and our collaborators may be unable to obtain coverage, pricing, and/or reimbursement on terms that are favorable to us or necessary for us or our collaborators to successfully commercialize our products in those countries. In some foreign countries, the proposed pricing for a drug must be approved before it may be lawfully marketed. The requirements governing drug pricing and reimbursement vary widely from country to country, and may take into account the clinical effectiveness, cost, and service impact of existing, new, and emerging drugs and treatments. For example, the EU provides options for its member states to restrict the range of medicinal products for which their national health insurance systems provide reimbursement and to control the prices of medicinal products for human use. A member state may approve a specific price for the medicinal product or it may instead adopt a system of direct or indirect controls on the profitability of the company placing the medicinal product on the market. Our results of operations may suffer if we or our collaborators are unable to market our products in foreign countries or if coverage and reimbursement for our products in foreign countries is limited or delayed. 
  We are dependent upon a small number of customers for a significant portion of our revenue, and the loss of or significant reduction in sales to these customers would adversely affect our results of operations. 
  We sell EYLEA in the United States to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. Under this distribution model, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product and generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers. For the year ended   December 31, 2016  , product sales to three customers accounted on a combined basis for   99%   of our total gross product revenue. We expect this significant customer concentration     to continue for the foreseeable future. Our ability to generate and grow sales of EYLEA will depend, in part, on the extent to which our distributors and specialty pharmacies are able to provide adequate distribution of EYLEA to healthcare providers. Although we believe we can find additional distributors, if necessary, our revenue during any period of disruption could suffer and we might incur additional costs. In addition, these customers are responsible for a significant portion of our net trade accounts receivable balances. The loss of any large customer, a significant reduction in sales we make to them, any cancellation of orders they have made with us, or any failure to pay for the products we have shipped to them could adversely affect our results of operations. 
  If we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the United States and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected. 
  We have limited commercial capabilities outside the United States and do not currently have an organization for the sales, marketing, and distribution of marketed products outside the United States. There may be circumstances in which we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the United States, including because we decide to exercise our option to co-promote a product outside the United States or commercialize a particular product independently; we are unable to find an appropriate collaborator; or our existing collaborator decides not to opt in, decides to opt out, or breaches its obligations to us with respect to a particular product. 
  In order to commercialize any products outside the United States, we must build our sales, marketing, distribution, managerial, and other non-technical capabilities in the relevant markets or make arrangements with third parties to perform these services, which would likely be expensive and time consuming and could delay product launch in one or more markets outside the United States. We cannot be certain that we will be able to successfully develop commercial capabilities outside the United States within an acceptable time frame or at all. These and other difficulties relating to commercializing our products outside the United States may severely harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  For additional risks relating to commercialization of EYLEA and Praluent outside the United States, see also "Risks Related to Commercialization of EYLEA -   We rely on our collaboration with Bayer for commercializing EYLEA  " and "Risks Related to Commercialization of Praluent -   We rely on our Antibody Collaboration with Sanofi for commercializing Praluent  ," respectively. 
  Regulatory and Litigation Risks 
  If the testing or use of our products harms people, or is perceived to harm them even when such harm is unrelated to our products, we could be subject to costly and damaging product liability claims. 
  The testing, manufacturing, marketing, and sale of drugs for use in people expose us to product liability risk. Any informed consent or waivers obtained from people who enroll in our clinical trials may not protect us from liability or the cost of litigation. We may also be subject to claims by patients who use our approved products, or our product candidates if those product candidates receive regulatory approval and become commercially available, that they have been injured by a side effect associated with the drug. Even in a circumstance in which we do not believe that an adverse event is related to our products or product candidates, the related investigation may be time consuming or inconclusive and may have a negative impact on our reputation or business. We may face product liability claims and be found responsible even if injury arises from the acts or omissions of third parties who provide fill/finish or other services. To the extent we maintain product liability insurance in relevant periods, such insurance may not cover all potential liabilities or may not completely cover any liability arising from any such litigation. Moreover, in the future we may not have access to liability insurance or be able to maintain our insurance on acceptable terms. 
  
   44 

Table of Contents  

If we market and sell approved products in a way that violates federal or state healthcare laws, we may be subject to civil or criminal penalties. 
  The FDA regulates the marketing and promotion of our products, which must comply with the Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act and applicable FDA implementing standards. The FDA's review of promotional activities includes healthcare provider-directed and direct-to-consumer advertising as well as sales representatives' communications. The FDA may take enforcement action for promoting unapproved uses of a product or other violations of its advertising laws and regulations. 
  In addition to FDA and related regulatory requirements, we are subject to health care "fraud and abuse" laws, such as the federal False Claims Act, the anti-kickback provisions of the federal Social Security Act, and other state and federal laws and regulations. Federal and state anti-kickback laws prohibit, among other things, payments or other remuneration to induce or reward someone to purchase, prescribe, endorse, or recommend a product that is reimbursed under federal or state healthcare programs. If we provide payments or other remuneration to a healthcare professional to induce the prescribing of our products, we could face liability under state and federal anti-kickback laws. 
  Federal false claims laws prohibit any person from knowingly presenting, or causing to be presented, a false claim for payment to the federal government, or knowingly making, or causing to be made, a false statement to get a false claim paid. Pharmaceutical companies have been prosecuted under these laws for a variety of alleged promotional and marketing activities, such as allegedly providing free product to customers with the expectation that the customers would bill federal programs for the product; reporting to pricing services inflated average wholesale prices that were then used by federal programs to set reimbursement rates; engaging in promotion for uses that the FDA has not approved, known as off-label uses, that caused claims to be submitted to Medicaid for non-covered off-label uses; and submitting inflated best price information to the Medicaid Rebate program. The majority of states also have statutes or regulations similar to the federal anti-kickback law and false claims laws, which apply to items and services reimbursed under Medicaid and other state programs, or, in several states, apply regardless of the payer. Sanctions under these federal and state laws may include civil monetary penalties, exclusion of a manufacturer's products from reimbursement under government programs, criminal fines, and imprisonment. Even if it is determined that we have not violated these laws, government investigations into these issues typically require the expenditure of significant resources and generate negative publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. Because of the breadth of these laws and the narrowness of the safe harbors, it is possible that some of our business activities could be challenged under one or more of such laws. 
  As part of the PPACA, the federal government  requires that pharmaceutical manufacturers record any "transfers of value" made to U.S. prescribers and certain other healthcare providers and teaching hospitals. Information provided by companies is aggregated and posted annually on an "Open Payments" website, which is managed by CMS, the agency responsible for implementing these disclosure requirements. We will need to continue to dedicate significant resources to comply with these requirements and to be prepared to comply with additional  reporting obligations outside of the United States that may apply in the future. The PPACA also includes various provisions designed to strengthen fraud and abuse enforcement, such as increased funding for enforcement efforts and the lowering of the intent requirement of the federal anti-kickback statute and criminal health care fraud statute such that a person or entity no longer needs to have actual knowledge of this statute or specific intent to violate it. In addition, several states have legislation requiring pharmaceutical companies to establish marketing compliance programs, file periodic reports with the state or make periodic public disclosures on sales, marketing, pricing, clinical trials, and other activities. Many of these requirements and standards are new or uncertain, and the penalties for failure to comply with these requirements may be unclear. If we are found not to be in full compliance with these laws, we could face enforcement actions, fines, and other penalties, and could receive adverse publicity, which would harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. Additionally, access to such data by fraud-and-abuse investigators and industry critics may draw scrutiny to our collaborations with reported entities. 
  Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  We cannot ensure that our compliance controls, policies, and procedures will in every instance protect us from acts committed by our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators that would violate the laws or regulations of the jurisdictions in which we operate, including, without limitation, healthcare, employment, foreign corrupt practices, trade restrictions and sanctions, environmental, competition, and patient privacy and other privacy laws and regulations. Such improper actions could subject us to civil or criminal investigations, and monetary and injunctive penalties, and could adversely impact our ability to conduct business, operating results, and reputation. 
  
   45 

Table of Contents  

In particular, our business activities outside of the United States are subject to the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, or FCPA, and similar anti-bribery or anti-corruption laws, regulations or rules of other countries in which we operate, including the U.K. Bribery Act. The FCPA generally prohibits offering, promising, giving, or authorizing others to give anything of value, either directly or indirectly, to a non-U.S. government official in order to influence official action, or otherwise obtain or retain business. The FCPA also requires public companies to make and keep books and records that accurately and fairly reflect the transactions of the corporation and to devise and maintain an adequate system of internal accounting controls. Our business is heavily regulated and therefore involves significant interaction with public officials, including officials of non-U.S. governments. Additionally, in many other countries, the health care providers who prescribe pharmaceuticals are employed by their government, and the purchasers of pharmaceuticals are government entities; therefore, our dealings with these prescribers and purchasers are subject to regulation under the FCPA. Recently the Securities and Exchange Commission, or SEC, and Department of Justice have increased their FCPA enforcement activities with respect to pharmaceutical companies. There is no certainty that all of our employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators, or those of our affiliates, will comply with all applicable laws and regulations, particularly given the high level of complexity of these laws. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, requirements to obtain export licenses, cessation of business activities in sanctioned countries, implementation of compliance programs, and prohibitions on the conduct of our business. Any such violations could include prohibitions on our ability to offer our products in one or more countries and could materially damage our reputation, our brand, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Our operations may involve hazardous materials and are subject to environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. Compliance with these laws and regulations is costly, and we may incur substantial liability arising from our activities involving the use of hazardous materials. 
  As a biopharmaceutical company with significant research and development and manufacturing operations, we are subject to extensive environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations, including those governing the use of hazardous materials. Our research and development and manufacturing activities involve the controlled use of chemicals, infectious agents (such as viruses, bacteria, and fungi), radioactive compounds, and other hazardous materials. The cost of compliance with environmental, health, and safety regulations is substantial. If an accident involving these materials or an environmental discharge were to occur, we could be held liable for any resulting damages, or face regulatory actions, which could exceed our resources or insurance coverage.  
  Our business is subject to increasingly complex corporate governance, public disclosure, and accounting requirements and regulations that could adversely affect our business, operating results, and financial condition. 
  We are subject to changing rules and regulations of various federal and state governmental authorities as well as the stock exchange on which our Common Stock is listed. These entities, including the SEC and The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC, have issued a significant number of new and increasingly complex requirements and regulations over the course of the last several years and continue to develop additional requirements and regulations in response to laws enacted by Congress, including the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 and, most recently, the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Protection Act, or the Dodd-Frank Act. There are significant corporate governance and executive compensation-related provisions in the Dodd-Frank Act that expressly authorized or required the SEC to adopt additional rules in these areas, a number of which have yet to be fully implemented. Our efforts to comply with these requirements and regulations have resulted in, and are likely to continue to result in, an increase in expenses and a diversion of management's time from other business activities. 
  Changes in laws and regulations affecting the healthcare industry could adversely affect our business. 
  All aspects of our business, including research and development, manufacturing, marketing, pricing, sales, litigation, and intellectual property rights, are subject to extensive legislation and regulation. Changes in applicable federal and state laws and agency regulations could have a materially negative impact on our business. These include: 
             
    changes in the FDA and foreign regulatory processes for new therapeutics that may delay or prevent the approval of any of our current or future product candidates; 
                
    new laws, regulations, or judicial decisions related to healthcare availability or the payment for healthcare products and services, including prescription drugs, that would make it more difficult for us to market and sell products once they are approved by the FDA or foreign regulatory agencies; 
                
    changes in FDA and foreign regulations that may require additional safety monitoring prior to or after the introduction of new products to market, which could materially increase our costs of doing business; and 
                
    changes in FDA and foreign cGMPs that may make it more difficult and costly for us to maintain regulatory compliance and/or manufacture our marketed product and product candidates in accordance with cGMPs. 
     As described above, the PPACA and potential regulations thereunder easing the entry of competing follow-on biologics into the marketplace, other new legislation or implementation of existing statutory provisions on importation of lower-cost competing  
  
   46 

Table of Contents  

drugs from other jurisdictions, and legislation on comparative effectiveness research are examples of previously enacted and possible future changes in laws that could adversely affect our business. 
  The current U.S. administration and Congress could carry out significant changes in legislation, regulation, and government policy (including with respect to the possible repeal of all or portions of the PPACA, possible changes in the existing treaty and trade relationships with other countries, and tax reform), as evidenced by statements and recent actions of the current president. While it is not possible to predict whether and when any such changes will occur, changes in the laws, regulations, and policies governing the development and approval of our product candidates and the commercialization, importation, and reimbursement of our products could adversely affect our business. 
  Risks associated with our operations outside of the United States could adversely affect our business. 
  We have operations and conduct business outside the United States and we plan to expand these activities.  Consequently, we are, and will continue to be, subject to risks related to operating in foreign countries, which include: 
             
    unfamiliar foreign laws or regulatory requirements or unexpected changes to those laws or requirements; 
                
    other laws and regulatory requirements to which our business activities abroad are subject, such as the FCPA and the U.K. Bribery Act (discussed in greater detail above under "  Risks from the improper conduct of employees, agents, contractors, or collaborators could adversely affect our reputation and our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition  "); 
                
    changes in the political or economic condition of a specific country or region; 
                
    fluctuations in the value of foreign currency versus the U.S. dollar; 
                
    our ability to deploy overseas funds in an efficient manner; 
                
    tariffs, trade protection measures, import or export licensing requirements, trade embargoes, and sanctions (including those administered by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the U.S. Department of the Treasury), and other trade barriers;  
                
    difficulties in attracting and retaining qualified personnel; and  
                
    cultural differences in the conduct of business. 
     For example, on June 23, 2016, the United Kingdom held a referendum in which voters approved an exit from the EU, commonly referred to as "Brexit." As a result of the referendum, it is expected that the British government will begin negotiating the terms of the United Kingdom's future relationship with the EU. We do not know to what extent Brexit will impact the business and regulatory environment in the United Kingdom, the rest of the EU, or other countries. Changes impacting our ability to conduct business in the United Kingdom or other EU countries, or changes to the regulatory regime applicable to our operations in those countries (such as with respect to the approval of our product candidates), may materially and adversely impact our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  We may incur additional tax liabilities related to our operations. 
  We are subject to income tax in the United States and various foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide tax liabilities, and our effective tax rate is derived from a combination of the applicable statutory rates in the various jurisdictions in which we operate. We record liabilities that involve significant management judgment for uncertain tax positions. The Internal Revenue Service or other domestic or foreign taxing authorities may disagree with our interpretation of tax law as applied to the operations of Regeneron and its subsidiaries or with the positions we may take with respect to particular tax issues on our tax returns. Consequently, our reported effective tax rate and our after-tax cash flows may be materially and adversely affected by tax assessments or judgments in excess of accrued amounts we have estimated in preparing our financial statements. Further, our effective tax rate may also be adversely affected by numerous other factors, including changes in the mix of our profitability from country to country and changes in tax laws and regulations. Changes in tax laws of various jurisdictions in which we do business could also result from the base erosion and profits shifting, or BEPS, recommendations by the Organization for Economic Co-operation and Development. If these recommendations (or other changes in law) were adopted by the countries in which we do business, it could adversely affect our provision for income tax and our current rate. 
  We face potential liability related to the privacy of health information we obtain from clinical trials sponsored by us or our collaborators, from research institutions and our collaborators, and directly from individuals. 
  Most health care providers, including research institutions from which we or our collaborators obtain patient health information, are subject to privacy and security regulations promulgated under the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996, or HIPAA, as amended by the Health Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health Act. For example, as part of our human genetics initiative, our wholly-owned subsidiary, Regeneron Genetics Center LLC, has entered into collaborations with research institutions, including the Geisinger Health System, which are subject to such regulations. Regeneron is not currently classified as a covered entity or business associate under HIPAA and thus is not subject to its requirements or penalties. However, any person may be prosecuted under HIPAA's criminal provisions either directly or under aiding-and-abetting or conspiracy  
  
   47 

Table of Contents  

principles. Consequently, depending on the facts and circumstances, we could face substantial criminal penalties if we knowingly receive individually identifiable health information from a HIPAA-covered health care provider or research institution that has not satisfied HIPAA's requirements for disclosure of individually identifiable health information. In addition, we may maintain sensitive personally identifiable information, including health information, that we receive throughout the clinical trial process, in the course of our research collaborations, and directly from individuals (or their healthcare providers) who enroll in our patient assistance programs. As such, we may be subject to state laws requiring notification of affected individuals and state regulators in the event of a breach of personal information, which is a broader class of information than the health information protected by HIPAA. Our clinical trial programs and research collaborations outside the U.S. implicate international data protection laws, including the EU Data Protection Directive and legislation of the EU member states implementing it. Our activities outside the U.S. impose additional compliance requirements and generate additional risks of enforcement for noncompliance. Failure by our collaborators to comply with the strict rules on the transfer of personal data outside of the EU into the U.S. may result in the imposition of criminal and administrative sanctions on such collaborators, which could adversely affect our business. Furthermore, certain health privacy laws, data breach notification laws, consumer protection laws, and genetic testing laws may apply directly to our operations and/or those of our collaborators and may impose restrictions on our collection, use, and dissemination of individuals' health information. Moreover, patients about whom we or our collaborators obtain health information, as well as the providers who share this information with us, may have statutory or contractual rights that limit our ability to use and disclose the information. We may be required to expend significant capital and other resources to ensure ongoing compliance with applicable privacy and data security laws. Claims that we have violated individuals' privacy rights or breached our contractual obligations, even if we are not found liable, could be expensive and time-consuming to defend and could result in adverse publicity that could harm our business. 
  If we or any collaborators fail to comply with applicable federal, state, or local regulatory requirements, we could be subject to a range of regulatory actions that could affect our or any collaborators' ability to commercialize our products and could harm or prevent sales of any affected products that we are able to commercialize, or could substantially increase the costs and expenses of commercializing and marketing our products. Any threatened or actual government enforcement action could also generate adverse publicity and require that we devote substantial resources that could otherwise be used in other aspects of our business. 
  Increasing use of social media could give rise to liability, breaches of data security, or reputational damage. 
  We and our employees are increasingly utilizing social media tools as a means of communication both internally and externally. Despite our efforts to monitor evolving social media communication guidelines and comply with applicable rules, there is risk that the use of social media by us or our employees to communicate about our products or business may cause us to be found in violation of applicable requirements. In addition, our employees may knowingly or inadvertently make use of social media in ways that may not comply with our social media policy     or other legal or contractual requirements, which may give rise to liability, lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, or result in public exposure of personal information of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. Furthermore, negative posts or comments about us or our products in social media could seriously damage our reputation, brand image, and goodwill.     Any of these events could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition and could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. 
  Risks Related to Our Reliance on Third Parties 
  If any of our collaborations with Sanofi is terminated, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to discover, develop, manufacture, and commercialize our pipeline of product candidates in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. 
  We rely heavily on funding from Sanofi to support certain antibody research and development programs, as well as our immuno-oncology research and development programs. Sanofi has committed to reimburse us for up to (i) $130.0 million of the costs of our efforts to identify and validate drug discovery targets and pre-clinically develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against such targets under our Antibody Discovery Agreement in 2017 and (ii) $825.0 million of the costs of our efforts to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop fully-human therapeutic antibodies against such targets under the IO Discovery and Development Agreement over the term of the IO Discovery and Development Agreement. Sanofi also initially funds almost all of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of product candidates (i) that Sanofi elects to co-develop with us under our Antibody Collaboration and (ii) for which Sanofi is the principal controlling party under our IO Collaboration. In addition, Sanofi initially funds half of the development expenses incurred in connection with the clinical development of product candidates for which we are the principal controlling party under our IO Collaboration. We rely on Sanofi to fund these activities. In addition, with respect to those antibodies that Sanofi elects to co-develop with us under our Antibody Collaboration (such as Praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab) or for which Sanofi is the principal controlling party under our IO Collaboration, we rely on Sanofi to lead much of the clinical development efforts and assist with obtaining and maintaining regulatory approval. Following regulatory approval, we also rely on Sanofi to lead (i) the commercialization efforts to support all of the antibody products that are co-developed by Sanofi and us under our Antibody Collaboration and (ii) the commercialization  
  
   48 

Table of Contents  

efforts outside the Unites States to support all products that are co-developed by Sanofi and us under our IO Collaboration (as well as the commercialization efforts in the United States to support all products for which Sanofi is the principal controlling party under our IO Collaboration). 
  If Sanofi does not elect to co-develop the product candidates that we discover or opts out of their development under our Antibody Collaboration or our IO Collaboration, unless we enter into a collaboration agreement with another party, we would be required to fund and oversee on our own the clinical trials, any regulatory responsibilities, and the ensuing commercialization efforts to support those antibody products. For example, Sanofi has elected not to continue co-development of fasinumab, REGN2222, and trevogrumab, and decided not to opt in to the evinacumab and other programs. In addition, after 2017, we will be required to fund our antibody discovery activities and the research and preclinical development activities of our drug candidates, as Sanofi s funding obligations under the Antibody Discovery Agreement will cease to continue except with regard to the programs for which Sanofi has exercised its extension right.     
   If Sanofi terminates any of the collaborations with us or fails to comply with its payment obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. We would be required to either expend substantially more resources than we have anticipated to support our research and development efforts, which could require us to seek additional funding that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, or materially cut back on such activities. If Sanofi does not perform its obligations with respect to the product candidates that it elects to co-develop, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize these product candidates will be significantly adversely affected. We have limited commercial capabilities outside the United States and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities for products commercialized under our Antibody Collaboration, such as Praluent (see also "Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -   If we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the United States and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected  " above). Termination of our Antibody Collaboration would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of Praluent, particularly outside the United States. 
  If our collaboration with Bayer for EYLEA is terminated, or Bayer materially breaches its obligations thereunder, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition, and our ability to continue to develop EYLEA and commercialize EYLEA outside the United States in the time expected, or at all, would be materially harmed. 
  We rely heavily on Bayer to assist with the development, and particularly the commercialization outside the United States, of EYLEA. Under our agreement with them, Bayer is required to fund approximately half of the development expenses incurred by both companies in connection with the global EYLEA development program. As the EYLEA program continues, we will continue to rely on Bayer to assist with funding the EYLEA development program, continue to lead the development of EYLEA outside the United States, obtain and maintain regulatory approval outside the United States, and provide all sales, marketing, and commercial support for the product outside the United States. In particular, Bayer has responsibility for selling EYLEA outside the United States using its sales force and, in Japan, in cooperation with Santen Pharmaceuticals Co. Ltd. pursuant to a Co-Promotion and Distribution Agreement with Bayer's Japanese affiliate. We cannot assure you that regulatory approvals will be received for EYLEA in additional indications outside the United States or that EYLEA will be successfully commercialized outside the United States. If Bayer and, in Japan, Santen do not perform their obligations in a timely manner, or at all, our ability to develop, manufacture, and commercialize EYLEA outside the United States will be significantly adversely affected. Bayer has the right to terminate its collaboration agreement with us at any time upon six or twelve months' advance notice, depending on the circumstances giving rise to termination. If Bayer were to terminate its collaboration agreement with us, we would not have the resources or skills to replace those of our collaborator, which could require us to seek additional funding or another collaboration that might not be available on favorable terms or at all, and could cause significant delays in the development and/or commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States and result in substantial additional costs to us. We have limited commercial capabilities outside the United States and would have to develop or outsource these capabilities (see also "Risks Related to Commercialization of Products -   If we need to establish commercial capabilities outside the United States and are unable to do so, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition may be adversely affected  " above). Termination of the Bayer collaboration agreement would create substantial new and additional risks to the successful development and commercialization of EYLEA, particularly outside the United States. 
  
   49 

Table of Contents  

Our collaborators and service providers may fail to perform adequately in their efforts to support the development, manufacture, and commercialization of our drug candidates and current and future products. 
  We depend upon third-party collaborators, including Sanofi, Bayer, and service providers such as CROs, outside testing laboratories, clinical investigator sites, and third-party manufacturers, fill/finish, and product packagers and labelers, to assist us in the manufacture and preclinical and clinical development of our product candidates. We also depend, or will depend, on some of these third parties in connection with the commercialization of our marketed products and our late-stage product candidates and new indications for our marketed products if they are approved for marketing. If any of our existing collaborators or service providers breaches or terminates its agreement with us or does not perform its development or manufacturing services under an agreement in a timely manner or in compliance with applicable GMPs, GLPs, or GCP Standards, we could experience additional costs, delays, and difficulties in the manufacture or development of, or in obtaining approval by regulatory authorities for, or successfully commercializing our product candidates. 
  We and our collaborators rely on third-party service providers to support the distribution of our marketed products and for many other related activities in connection with the commercialization of these marketed products. Despite our or our collaborators' arrangements with them, these third parties may not perform adequately. If these service providers do not perform their services adequately, sales of our marketed products will suffer. 
  Risk Related to Employees 
  We are dependent on our key personnel and if we cannot recruit and retain leaders in our research, development, manufacturing, and commercial organizations, our business will be harmed. 
  We are highly dependent on certain of our executive officers, other key members of our senior management team, and our Chairman. If we are not able to retain (or for any other reason lose the services of) any of these persons, our business may suffer. In particular, we depend on the services of P. Roy Vagelos, M.D., the Chairman of our board of directors; Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., our President and Chief Executive Officer; George D. Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D., our President and Chief Scientific Officer; and Neil Stahl, Ph.D., our Executive Vice President, Research and Development. As we continue to commercialize EYLEA and Praluent and begin to commercialize other products assuming the receipt of required regulatory approvals, we are also highly dependent on the expertise and services of members of our senior management leading these commercialization efforts. There is intense competition in the biotechnology industry for qualified scientists and managerial personnel in the development, manufacture, and commercialization of drugs. We may not be able to continue to attract and retain the qualified personnel necessary to continue to advance our business and achieve our strategic objectives. 
  Information Technology Risks 
  Significant disruptions of information technology systems or breaches of data security could adversely affect our business. 
  Our business is increasingly dependent on critical, complex, and interdependent information technology systems, including Internet-based systems, to support business processes as well as internal and external communications. The size and complexity of our computer systems make us potentially vulnerable to IT system breakdowns, internal and external malicious intrusion, and computer viruses, which may result in the impairment of production and key business processes. We also have outsourced significant elements of our information technology infrastructure and operations to third parties, which may provide access to our confidential information to such third parties and may also make our systems vulnerable to service interruptions or to security breaches from inadvertent or intentional actions by such third parties or others. 
  In addition, our systems are potentially vulnerable to data security breaches - whether by employees or others - which may expose sensitive data to unauthorized persons. Such data security breaches could lead to the loss of trade secrets or other intellectual property, result in demands for ransom or other forms of blackmail, or lead to the public exposure of personal information (including sensitive personal information) of our employees, clinical trial patients, customers, and others. Such attacks are of ever-increasing levels of sophistication and are made by groups and individuals with a wide range of motives (including industrial espionage) and expertise, including by organized criminal groups,  hacktivists,  nation states, and others. As a company with an increasingly global presence, our systems are subject to frequent attacks. Due to the nature of some of these attacks, there is a risk that an attack may remain undetected for a period of time. While we continue to make investments to improve the protection of data and information technology, there can be no assurance that our efforts will prevent service interruptions or security breaches. 
  Such disruptions and breaches of security could result in legal proceedings, liability under laws that protect the privacy of personal information, disruptions to our operations, and damage to our reputation, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  
   50 

Table of Contents  

Risks Related to Our Financial Results, Liquidity, and Need for Additional Financing  
  If we cannot sustain profitability, our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition would be materially harmed. 
  Beginning in 2012, we reported profitability; prior to that, we generally incurred net losses. If we cannot sustain profitability, we may be unable to continue our operations. In the absence of substantial revenue from the sale of products on an ongoing basis, including our sales of EYLEA, and our share of the profits from Bayer's sales of EYLEA outside the United States, or from other sources, the amount, timing, nature, or source of which cannot be predicted, we may incur substantial losses again as we conduct our research and development activities, commercialize our approved products, and prepare for possible commercialization of our other product candidates and new indications of our marketed products. 
  We may need additional funding in the future, which may not be available to us, and which may force us to delay, reduce or eliminate our product development programs or commercialization efforts. 
  We expend substantial resources for research and development, including costs associated with clinical testing of our product candidates and new indications of our marketed products, the commercialization of products, and capital expenditures. We believe our existing capital resources and borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, together with funds generated by current and anticipated EYLEA net product sales and funding we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our anticipated operating needs for the foreseeable future. However, one or more of our collaboration agreements may terminate, our revenues may fall short of our projections or be delayed, or our expenses may increase, any of which could result in our capital being consumed significantly faster than anticipated. In addition, our expenses may increase for many reasons, including expenses in connection with the commercialization of EYLEA and Praluent and the anticipated commercial launches of our late-stage product candidates, including sarilumab and dupilumab, and new indications for our marketed products, manufacturing scale-up, expenses related to clinical trials testing of antibody product candidates we are developing on our own (without a collaborator), and expenses for which we are responsible in accordance with the terms of our collaboration agreements. 
  We cannot be certain that our existing capital resources and our current and anticipated revenues will be sufficient to meet our operating needs. We may require additional financing in the future and we may not be able to raise additional funds on acceptable terms or at all. For example, on December 30, 2016, we entered into a purchase agreement pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase our existing corporate headquarters and other rentable area consisting of approximately 150 acres of predominately office buildings and laboratory space located in the towns of Mount Pleasant and Greenburgh, NY for a gross purchase price of $720.0 million, subject to certain customary adjustments. The closing of the purchase is anticipated in the first quarter of 2017. Our obligation to consummate the purchase is not subject to a financing condition. While we have engaged a financing provider to use its best efforts to arrange a financing in connection with the contemplated purchase, there is no guarantee that we will be able to obtain such financing on the agreed terms or at all. Our ability to obtain additional financing could be adversely affected if there is a significant decline in the demand for our products or other significantly unfavorable changes in economic conditions. Volatility in the financial markets could increase borrowing costs or affect our ability to raise capital. If additional financing is necessary and we obtain it through the sale of equity securities, such sales will likely be dilutive to our shareholders. Debt financing arrangements may require us to pledge certain assets or enter into covenants that would restrict our business activities or our ability to incur further indebtedness and may be at interest rates and contain other terms that are not favorable to our shareholders. Should we require and be unable to raise sufficient funds (i) to complete the development of our product candidates, (ii) to successfully commercialize our late-stage product candidates or new indications for our marketed products if they obtain regulatory approval, and (iii) to continue our manufacturing and marketing of EYLEA, we may face delay, reduction, or elimination of our research and development or preclinical or clinical programs and our commercialization activities, which would significantly limit our potential to generate revenue. 
  Changes in foreign currency exchange rates could have a material adverse effect on our operating results. 
  Our revenue from outside of the United States will increase as our products, whether marketed by us or our collaborators, gain marketing approval in such jurisdictions. Our primary foreign currency exposure relates to movements in the Japanese yen, euro, British pound sterling, and Australian dollar. If the U.S. dollar weakens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will increase, having a positive impact on net income, but our overall expenses will increase, having a negative impact. Likewise, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against a specific foreign currency, our revenues will decrease, having a negative impact on net income, but our overall expenses will decrease, having a positive impact. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates can impact our operating results and the financial condition of our company. 
  Our investments are subject to risks and other external factors that may result in losses or affect the liquidity of these investments. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , we had   $535.2 million   in cash and cash equivalents and   $1,367.7 million   in marketable securities (including   $49.2 million   in equity securities). Our investments consist primarily of fixed-income securities, including investment- 
  
   51 

Table of Contents  

grade corporate bonds. These fixed-income investments are subject to external factors that may adversely affect their market value or liquidity, such as interest rate, liquidity, market, and issuer credit risks, including actual or anticipated changes in credit ratings. The equity securities we hold may experience significant volatility and may decline in value or become worthless if the issuer experiences an adverse development. Furthermore, our equity investments could be subject to dilution (and decline in value) as a result of the issuance of additional equity interests. If any of our investments suffer market price declines that are other than temporary, their value could be impaired, which may have an adverse effect on our financial condition and operating results. 
  Risks Related to Our Common Stock 
  Our stock price is extremely volatile. 
  There has been significant volatility in our stock price and generally in the market prices of biotechnology companies' securities. Various factors and events may have a significant impact on the market price of our Common Stock. These factors include, by way of example: 
             
    fluctuations in our operating results, in particular net product sales of EYLEA; 
                
    if any of our product candidates or our new indications for our marketed products receive regulatory approval, net product sales of, and profits from, these product candidates and new indications; 
                
    market acceptance of, and fluctuations in market share for, our marketed products, especially EYLEA and Praluent; 
                
    whether our net products sales and net profits underperform, meet, or exceed the expectations of investors or analysts; 
                
    announcement of actions by the FDA or foreign regulatory authorities or their respective advisory committees regarding our, or our collaborators', or our competitors', currently pending or future application(s) for regulatory approval of product candidate(s) or new indications for marketed products; 
                
    announcement of submission of an application for regulatory approval of one or more of our, or our competitors',  product candidates or new indications for marketed products; 
                
    progress, delays, or results in clinical trials of our or our competitors' product candidates or new indications for marketed products; 
                
    announcement of technological innovations or product candidates by us or competitors; 
                
    claims by others that our products or technologies infringe their patents; 
                
    challenges by others to our patents in the European Patent Office and in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office; 
                
    public concern as to the safety or effectiveness of any of our marketed products or product candidates or new indications for our marketed products; 
                
    pricing or reimbursement actions, decisions, or recommendations by government authorities, insurers, or other organizations (such as health maintenance organizations and pharmacy benefit management companies) affecting the coverage, reimbursement, or use of any of our marketed products or competitors' products; 
                
    our ability to raise additional capital as needed on favorable terms; 
                
    developments in our relationships with collaborators or key customers; 
                
    developments in the biotechnology industry or in government regulation of healthcare, including those relating to compounding; 
                
    large sales of our Common Stock by our executive officers, directors, or significant shareholders; 
                
    changes in tax rates, laws, or interpretation of tax laws; 
                
    arrivals and departures of key personnel;  
                
    general market conditions; 
                
    trading activity that results from the rebalancing of stock indices in which our Common Stock is included, or the inclusion or exclusion of our Common Stock from such indices;  
                
    other factors identified in these "Risk Factors"; and  
                
    the perception by the investment community or our shareholders of any of the foregoing factors. 
     The trading price of our Common Stock has been, and could continue to be, subject to wide fluctuations in response to these and other factors, including the sale or attempted sale of a large amount of our Common Stock in the market. As discussed in greater detail under "  Future sales of our Common Stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings  " below, a large percentage of our Common Stock is owned by a small number of our principal shareholders, and our largest shareholder, Sanofi, has been maintaining its percentage ownership of our Common Stock but has previously publicly disclosed that it may opportunistically increase its percentage ownership of our Common Stock. As a result, the public float of our Common Stock (i.e., the portion of our Common Stock held by public investors, as opposed to the Common Stock held by our directors, officers, and principal shareholders) is low relative to many large public companies. As our Common Stock is less liquid than the stock of companies with broader public ownership, its trading price may fluctuate significantly more than the stock market as a whole. These factors may exacerbate the volatility in the trading price of our Common Stock and may negatively impact your ability to liquidate your investment in Regeneron at the time you wish at a price you consider satisfactory. Broad market fluctuations may also adversely affect the market price of our Common Stock. In  
  
   52 

Table of Contents  

the past, securities class action litigation has often been initiated against companies following periods of volatility in their stock price. This type of litigation could result in substantial costs and divert our management's attention and resources, and could also require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments or to settle litigation, which may harm our business, prospects, operating results, and financial condition. 
  Future sales of our Common Stock by our significant shareholders or us may depress our stock price and impair our ability to raise funds in new share offerings. 
  A small number of our shareholders beneficially own a substantial amount of our Common Stock. As of   December 31, 2016  , our five largest shareholders plus Dr. Schleifer, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately   52.0%   of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming, in the case of our Chief Executive Officer, the conversion of his Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of   December 31, 2016  . As of   December 31, 2016  , Sanofi beneficially owned   23,418,396   shares of our Common Stock, representing approximately   22.5%   of the shares of Common Stock then outstanding. Under our January 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with Sanofi, Sanofi has three demand rights to require us to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten offering with respect to shares of our Common Stock held by Sanofi from time to time; however, shares of our Common Stock held by Sanofi from time to time may not be sold until the later of (i) December 20, 2020 and (ii)  the expiration of our Antibody Discovery Agreement with Sanofi relating to our Antibody Collaboration (as amended) if the agreement is extended beyond December 20, 2020. These restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving us or a dissolution or liquidation of our company. In February 2013, we received from Sanofi a notification under the Hart-Scott-Rodino Antitrust Improvements Act of 1976 that it intends to acquire additional Common Stock through open market purchases and direct purchases from shareholders. In December 2015, Sanofi disclosed in an amendment to its Schedule 13D filed with the SEC its intention to purchase (subject to market conditions, including the price and availability of shares of our Common Stock, and legal and regulatory requirements) additional shares of our Common Stock to maintain and opportunistically increase its beneficial ownership on a percentage basis up to the maximum allowed under the "standstill" provisions of our amended and restated investor agreement with Sanofi, or 30% of our Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). If Sanofi, our other significant shareholders, or we sell substantial amounts of our Common Stock in the public market, or there is a perception that such sales may occur, the market price of our Common Stock could fall. Sales of Common Stock by our significant shareholders, including Sanofi, also might make it more difficult for us to raise funds by selling equity or equity-related securities in the future at a time and price that we deem appropriate. 
  Our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management. 
  Holders of Class A Stock, who are generally the shareholders who purchased their stock from us before our initial public offering, are entitled to ten votes per share, while holders of Common Stock are entitled to one vote per share. As of   December 31, 2016  , holders of Class A Stock held   15.5%   of the combined voting power of all shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock then outstanding. These shareholders, if acting together, would be in a position to significantly influence the election of our directors and the vote on certain corporate transactions that require majority or supermajority approval of the combined classes, including mergers and other business combinations. This may result in our taking corporate actions that other shareholders may not consider to be in their best interest and may affect the price of our Common Stock. As of   December 31, 2016  : 
             
    our current executive officers and directors beneficially owned   10.8%   of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming conversion of their Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of   December 31, 2016  , and   22.0%   of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by such persons which are exercisable within 60 days of   December 31, 2016  ; and 
                
    our five largest shareholders plus Dr. Schleifer, our Chief Executive Officer, beneficially owned approximately   52.0%   of our outstanding shares of Common Stock, assuming, in the case of our Chief Executive Officer, the conversion of his Class A Stock into Common Stock and the exercise of all options held by him which are exercisable within 60 days of   December 31, 2016  . In addition, these five shareholders plus our Chief Executive Officer held approximately   57.2%   of the combined voting power of our outstanding shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock, assuming the exercise of all options held by our Chief Executive Officer which are exercisable within 60 days of   December 31, 2016  . 
     Pursuant to the January 2014 amended and restated investor agreement with us, Sanofi has agreed to vote its shares as recommended by our board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of our other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution of our company, stock issuances equal to or exceeding 20% of the outstanding shares or voting rights of Common Stock and Class A Stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with our historical equity compensation practices. 
  
   53 

Table of Contents  

In addition, upon Sanofi reaching 20% ownership of our outstanding shares of Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together), we are required under the amended and restated investor agreement to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and Sanofi to our board of directors. Subject to certain exceptions, we are required to use our reasonable efforts (including recommending that our shareholders vote in favor) to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as Sanofi maintains an equity interest in us that is the lower of (i) the highest percentage ownership Sanofi attains following its acquisition of 20% of our outstanding shares of Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together) and (ii) 25% of our outstanding shares of Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). This designee is required to be "independent" of our company, as determined under NASDAQ rules, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of Sanofi. In April 2014, Sanofi notified us that it had reached the 20% ownership threshold and designated an initial director designee. Following the election and subsequent resignation of the initial designee, in January 2017, the board of directors elected N. Anthony Coles, M.D. as a successor Sanofi designee. Dr. Coles has been elected as a Class II director with a term expiring at the 2017 annual shareholder meeting.  
  The anti-takeover effects of provisions of our charter, by-laws, and of New York corporate law, as well as the contractual provisions in our investor and collaboration agreements and certain provisions of our compensation plans and agreements, could deter, delay, or prevent an acquisition or other "change in control" of us and could adversely affect the price of our Common Stock. 
  Our certificate of incorporation, our by-laws, and the New York Business Corporation Law contain various provisions that could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change in control of our company or our management that shareholders may consider favorable or beneficial. Some of these provisions could discourage proxy contests and make it more difficult for shareholders to elect directors and take other corporate actions. These provisions could also limit the price that investors might be willing to pay in the future for shares of our Common Stock. These provisions include: 
             
    authorization to issue "blank check" preferred stock, which is preferred stock that can be created and issued by the board of directors without prior shareholder approval, with rights senior to those of our Common Stock and Class A Stock; 
                
    a staggered board of directors, so that it would take three successive annual shareholder meetings to replace all of our directors; 
                
    a requirement that removal of directors may only be effected for cause and only upon the affirmative vote of at least eighty percent (80%) of the outstanding shares entitled to vote for directors, as well as a requirement that any vacancy on the board of directors may be filled only by the remaining directors; 
                
    a provision whereby any action required or permitted to be taken at any meeting of shareholders may be taken without a meeting, only if, prior to such action, all of our shareholders consent, the effect of which is to require that shareholder action may only be taken at a duly convened meeting; 
                
    a requirement that any shareholder seeking to bring business before an annual meeting of shareholders must provide timely notice of this intention in writing and meet various other requirements; and 
                
    under the New York Business Corporation Law, in addition to certain restrictions which may apply to "business combinations" involving our company and an "interested shareholder," a plan of merger or consolidation of our company must be approved by two-thirds of the votes of all outstanding shares entitled to vote thereon. See the risk factor above captioned "  Our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management.  " 
     Pursuant to the January 2014 amended and restated investor agreement between us and Sanofi, Sanofi is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit Sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 30% of our Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). This prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of our License and Collaboration Agreement with Sanofi relating to our Antibody Collaboration or our ZALTRAP collaboration agreement with Sanofi, each as amended; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the date of any issuance of shares of Common Stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of Sanofi; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company.    
  Similarly, under our 2014 PDGFR-beta license and collaboration agreement and our 2016 ANG2 license and collaboration agreement with Bayer, Bayer is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit Bayer from seeking to influence the control of our company or acquiring more than 20% of our outstanding Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). With respect to each of these agreements, this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) the public announcement of a tender offer, exchange offer, or other proposal that would constitute a change of control of our company; (iii) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties  
  
   54 

Table of Contents  

(other than by Dr. Schleifer or his affiliates) of more than 20% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together); (iv) the issuance of shares of capital stock to another party (other than to an underwriter in a public offering) that would result in such party's having more than 7% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together) unless such third party enters into a standstill agreement containing terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of Bayer; or (v) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. 
  Further, pursuant to the 2016 collaboration agreement between us and Teva, Teva and its affiliates are bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit them from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of our company or acquiring more than 5% of our Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). This prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) our announcement recommending acceptance by our shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving us; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control involving us; (iv) the acquisition by a third party or a group of third parties of more than 30% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together); (v) the date of any issuance of shares of capital stock by us that would result in another party having more than 10% of the voting power of our outstanding Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of Teva; or (vi) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of our company. 
  In addition, our Change in Control Severance Plan and the employment agreement with our Chief Executive Officer, each as amended and restated, provide for severance benefits in the event of termination as a result of a change in control of our company. Also, stock options issued under our Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan and our 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan may become fully vested in connection with a "change in control" of our company, as defined in the plans. Further, under the amended and restated investor agreement between us and Sanofi, we are required under certain circumstances to appoint an individual agreed upon by us and Sanofi to our board of directors and to use our reasonable efforts to cause the election of this designee at our annual shareholder meetings for so long as Sanofi maintains a specified equity interest in us. As described above under "  Our existing shareholders may be able to exert significant influence over matters requiring shareholder approval and over our management  ," a Sanofi designee has in the past served, and a successor Sanofi designee currently serves, on our board of directors. These contractual provisions may also have the effect of deterring, delaying, or preventing an acquisition or other change in control. 
   
  ITEM 1B.  UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
  None. 
   
  ITEM 2.  PROPERTIES 
  We conduct our research, development, manufacturing, and administrative activities at our owned and leased facilities. A summary of our significant owned and leased properties is provided below.  
  Tarrytown, New York 
  At our Tarrytown, New York location, we lease approximately   1,180,000   square feet of laboratory and office space. Additionally, in 2015, we acquired an approximate   100  -acre parcel of undeveloped land adjacent to our  Tarrytown, New York location; we intend to develop this property to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our existing research and development and office space. In December 2016, we entered into an agreement with the landlord of our Tarrytown, New York laboratory and office space to purchase this property and other rentable area - refer to Item. 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Liquidity and Capital Resources -   Tarrytown, New York Leases  ". 
  Sleepy Hollow, New York 
  In November 2016, we acquired a   383,000   square foot office building in Sleepy Hollow, New York, which we intend to utilize as additional office space to support the growth of our existing Tarrytown facilities. 
  Rensselaer, New York 
  We own facilities in Rensselaer, New York totaling approximately   564,000   square feet of research, manufacturing, office, and warehouse space. We also lease approximately   75,000   square feet of additional laboratory and office space. During 2016, we acquired approximately 120-acres of undeveloped land near our Rensselaer, New York location. We intend to develop this property in connection with expanding our existing manufacturing and warehouse space. 
  
   55 

Table of Contents  

Troy, New York 
  Additionally, in June 2016, we acquired a 217,000 square foot office building in Troy, New York, which we intend to utilize as additional office space to support the growth of our existing Rensselaer facilities. 
  Limerick, Ireland 
  In 2014, we acquired a   400,000   square foot manufacturing facility in Limerick, Ireland. We are in process of renovating this facility to accommodate and support our growth, primarily in connection with expanding our manufacturing capacity to support our global supply chain.   We currently are in the process of validating the facility, as required by regulatory authorities, for the manufacture of bulk drug materials  .  
   
  ITEM 3.  LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
  From time to time, we are a party to legal proceedings in the course of our business, including those described below. The outcome of any such proceedings, regardless of the merits, is inherently uncertain. For a description of risks relating to these and other legal proceedings we face, see Part I, Item 1A. "Risk Factors," including the discussion under the headings entitled "Risks Related to Intellectual Property and Market Exclusivity," "Regulatory and Litigation Risks," and "Risks Related to Our Common Stock." 
  Proceedings Relating to   '  287 Patent, '163 Patent, and '018 Patent 
  We are party to patent infringement litigation initiated by us involving our European Patent No. 1,360,287 (the '287 Patent), our European Patent No. 2,264,163 (the '163 Patent), and our U.S. Patent No. 8,502,018 (the '018 Patent). Each of these patents concerns genetically engineered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse. Chimeric antibody sequences can be used to produce high-affinity fully human monoclonal antibodies. In these proceedings, we claim infringement of several claims of the '287 Patent, the '163 Patent, and the '018 Patent (as applicable), and seek, among other types of relief, an injunction and an account of profits in connection with the defendants' infringing acts, which may include, among other things, the making, use, keeping, sale, or offer for sale of genetically engineered mice (or certain cells from which they are derived) that infringe one or more claims of the '287 Patent, the '163 Patent, and the '018 Patent (as applicable). 
  On September 25, 2013, we commenced patent infringement litigation against Kymab Ltd in the English High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court, in London, asserting the '287 Patent and '163 Patent. A trial to adjudicate the claims of infringement and counterclaims of invalidity of the '287 Patent and the '163 Patent was held from November 16, 2015 through December 8, 2015. On February 1, 2016, the court issued a final judgment, finding that the asserted claims of the '287 and '163 Patents are novel, not obvious, and infringed by Kymab's genetically engineered mice. However, the court invalidated the '287 and '163 Patents on the ground of insufficiency. On April 27, 2016, the court granted permission for our appeal and Kymab's cross-appeal, and on May 18, 2016, Regeneron and Kymab filed their respective notices to appeal the court's decision on the '287 and '163 Patents. The hearing for the appeal and the cross-appeal is currently scheduled for October 2017. 
  On March 11, 2014, we commenced '287 Patent infringement litigation and '018 Patent infringement litigation against Merus B.V., a company based in Utrecht, The Netherlands, in the District Court of The Hague (currently stayed by agreement of the parties) and the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York, respectively. On November 21, 2014, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York issued its Opinion and Order on Claim Construction in the '018 Patent infringement litigation, in which it held the '018 Patent invalid. On November 2, 2015, the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York issued an opinion and order in our '018 Patent infringement litigation against Merus B.V. finding that the '018 Patent was procured by inequitable conduct, thus rendering it unenforceable. On December 17, 2015, we filed a notice of appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. Oral argument on the appeal is currently scheduled for February 13, 2017. 
  Our '287 Patent was also the subject of opposition proceedings in the European Patent Office (EPO) initiated by Kymab and Merus in June 2013, alleging lack of novelty, lack of inventive step, and insufficiency. On September 17, 2014, following an oral hearing held to evaluate the validity of the '287 Patent, the Opposition Division of the EPO revoked the '287 Patent in its entirety on the grounds of lack of inventive step. Following our appeal, on November 9, 2015, the Technical Board of Appeal of the EPO (TBA) reversed the decision of the Opposition Division and found the amended claims of the '287 Patent were valid. The TBA issued a final, written decision in this matter on March 10, 2016. 
  On July 8 and July 13, 2016, notices of opposition against the '163 Patent were filed in the EPO by Merus N.V. and Kymab and Novo Nordisk A/S, respectively. The notices assert, as applicable, lack of novelty, lack of inventive step, and insufficiency. Our response to the oppositions was filed on December 30, 2016. 
  
   56 

Table of Contents  

Proceedings Relating to Praluent (alirocumab) Injection 
  As described in greater detail below, we are currently a party to patent infringement actions initiated by Amgen Inc. against us and Sanofi (and/or our and Sanofi's respective affiliated entities) in a number of jurisdictions relating to Praluent, which we are jointly developing and commercializing with Sanofi.  
  In the United States, Amgen has asserted a number of U.S. patents, which were subsequently narrowed to U.S. Patent Nos. 8,829,165 (the '165 Patent) and 8,859,741 (the '741 Patent), and seeks a permanent injunction to prevent us and the Sanofi defendants from manufacturing, using, offering to sell, or selling within the United States (as well as importing into the United States) (collectively, Commercializing) Praluent. Amgen also seeks a judgment of patent infringement of the asserted patents, monetary damages (together with interest), costs and expenses of the lawsuits, and attorneys' fees. A jury trial in this litigation was held in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware from March 8 to March 16, 2016. During the course of the trial, the court ruled as a matter of law in favor of Amgen that the asserted patent claims were not obvious, and in favor of Regeneron and the Sanofi defendants that there was no willful infringement of the asserted patent claims by Regeneron or the Sanofi defendants. On March 16, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Amgen, finding that the asserted claims of the '165 and '741 Patents were not invalid based on either a lack of written description or a lack of enablement. On January 3, 2017, the court issued a final opinion and judgment, denying our and the Sanofi defendants' motions for new trial and judgment as a matter of law. The court also denied as moot Amgen's motion to strike our and the Sanofi defendants' request to obtain a judgment as a matter of law, which allows the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to address our and the Sanofi defendants' patent invalidity arguments on appeal. On January 12, 2017, we and the Sanofi defendants filed a notice of appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On January 18, 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ordered an expedited briefing schedule of the appeal on the merits, pursuant to which the briefing is scheduled to be completed no later than March 31, 2017. On January 31, 2017, Amgen filed a motion with the United States District Court for the District of Delaware to amend the court's final judgment to include an award of supplemental damages (including interest) and enhancement of such damages following the resolution of the appeal. 
  On March 23 and March 24, 2016, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware held a permanent injunction hearing to determine whether Regeneron and the Sanofi defendants should be prohibited from Commercializing Praluent in the United States. On January 5, 2017, the court granted the permanent injunction but delayed its imposition for 30 days (subsequently extended to 45 days) from the date of grant (i.e., until February 21, 2017). On January 13, 2017, we and the Sanofi defendants filed an emergency motion for stay of the permanent injunction pending appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; and, on February 8, 2017, the court granted the stay pending appeal. 
  On July 25, 2016, Amgen filed a lawsuit against us, Sanofi-Aventis Groupe S.A., Sanofi-Synthelabo Limited, Aventis Pharma Limited, Sanofi Winthrop Industrie S.A., and Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH in the English High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court, in London, seeking a declaration of infringement of Amgen's European Patent No. 2,215,124 (the '124 Patent), which pertains to PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies, by Praluent. The lawsuit also seeks a permanent injunction, damages, an accounting of profits, and costs and interest. On February 8, 2017, the court temporarily stayed this litigation on terms mutually agreed by the parties. 
  Also on July 25, 2016, Amgen filed a lawsuit for infringement of the '124 Patent against us, Sanofi-Aventis Groupe S.A., Sanofi Winthrop Industrie S.A., and Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH in the Regional Court of D sseldorf, Germany, seeking a permanent injunction, an accounting of marketing activities, a recall of Praluent and its removal from distribution channels, and damages. Oral hearing on this infringement lawsuit is currently scheduled for October 19, 2017.  
  On September 26, 2016, Amgen filed a lawsuit for infringement of the '124 Patent in the Tribunal de grande instance in Paris, France against us, Sanofi-Aventis Groupe S.A., and Sanofi Winthrop Industrie. Amgen is seeking the prohibition of allegedly infringing activities with a  10,000 penalty per drug unit of Praluent produced in violation of the court order sought by Amgen; an appointment of an expert for the assessment of damages; disclosure of technical (including supply-chain) and accounting information to the expert and the court; provisional damages of  10.0 million (which would be awarded on an interim basis pending final determination); reimbursement of costs; publication of the ruling in three newspapers; and provisional enforcement of the decision to be issued, which would ensure enforcement of the decision (including any provisional damages) pending appeal. Amgen is not seeking a preliminary injunction in this proceeding at this time. 
  
   57 

Table of Contents  

Proceedings Relating to Patents Owned by Genentech and City of Hope 
  On July 27, 2015, we and Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California (Western Division) seeking a declaratory judgment of invalidity, as well as non-infringement by the manufacture, use, sale, offer of sale, or importation of Praluent, of U.S. Patent No. 7,923,221 (the '221 Patent) jointly owned by Genentech, Inc. and City of Hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies by host cells. On the same day, we and Sanofi-Aventis  initiated an inter partes review in the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO") seeking a declaration of invalidity of certain claims of U.S. Patent No. 6,331,415 (the "'415 Patent" and, together, with the "221 Patent", the "Cabilly Patents") jointly owned by Genentech and City of Hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies by host cells. On August 18, 2016, we and Sanofi-Aventis entered into a License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech and City of Hope that resolved all outstanding issues concerning the Cabilly Patents in the above-referenced litigation and inter partes review proceeding, resulting in a joint stipulation of dismissal being entered in the court and the USPTO. Under the agreement, Regeneron has been granted a license to the Cabilly Patents to make, use, and sell Praluent and all other antibody products under development at the time of the settlement. 
  Proceedings Relating to Shareholder Derivative Claims 
  On December 30, 2015, an alleged shareholder filed a shareholder derivative complaint in the New York Supreme Court, naming the current and certain former non-employee members of our board of directors, the Chairman of the board of directors, our Chief Executive Officer, and our Chief Scientific Officer as defendants and Regeneron as a nominal defendant. The complaint asserts that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties and were unjustly enriched when they approved and/or received allegedly excessive compensation in 2013 and 2014. The complaint seeks damages in favor of Regeneron for the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties and unjust enrichment; changes to Regeneron's corporate governance and internal procedures; invalidation of Regeneron's 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan with respect to the individual defendants' compensation and a shareholder vote regarding the individual defendants' equity compensation; equitable relief, including an equitable accounting with disgorgement; and award of the costs of the action, including attorneys' fees. On March 2, 2016, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the shareholder derivative complaint. On August 16, 2016, the court heard oral argument on defendants' motion to dismiss. Pursuant to our By-Laws and the New York Business Corporation Law, expenses in connection with the foregoing are being advanced by us for the individual defendants. 
  On or about December 15, 2015, we received a shareholder litigation demand upon our board of directors made by a purported Regeneron shareholder. The demand asserts that the current and certain former non-employee members of the board of directors and the Chairman of the board of directors excessively compensated themselves in 2013 and 2014. The demand requests that our board of directors investigate and bring legal action against these directors for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and corporate waste, and implement internal controls and systems designed to prohibit and prevent similar actions in the future. Our board of directors, working with outside counsel, investigated the allegations in the demand and the shareholder derivative complaint, and has determined to defer its decision on the demand until the court rules on the pending motion to dismiss the shareholder derivative complaint, as discussed above. 
  Department of Justice Investigation  
  In January 2017, we received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents relating to our support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to patients; documents concerning our provision of financial assistance to patients with respect to products sold or developed by us (including EYLEA, Praluent, ARCALYST, and ZALTRAP); and certain other related documents and communications. We are cooperating with this investigation. 
   
  ITEM 4.  MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
  Not applicable. 
  
   58 

Table of Contents  

PART II 
   
  ITEM 5. MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
  Market for Registrant's Common Equity 
  Our Common Stock, par value $.001 per share, is quoted on The NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol "REGN." Our Class A Stock, par value $.001 per share, is not publicly quoted or traded. 
  The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the range of high and low sales prices for our Common Stock as reported by The NASDAQ Global Select Market: 

As of February 1, 2017, there were   196   shareholders of record of our Common Stock and   18   shareholders of record of our Class A Stock.   
  We have never paid cash dividends on our Common Stock or Class A Stock and do not anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. 
  
   59 

Table of Contents  

STOCK PERFORMANCE GRAPH 
  Set forth below is a line graph comparing the cumulative total shareholder return on Regeneron's Common Stock with the cumulative total return of (i) The NQ US Benchmark Pharma TR Index, and (ii) Standard   Poor's 500 Stock Index (S P 500) for the period from December 31, 2011 through December 31, 2016. The comparison assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2011 in our Common Stock and in both of the foregoing indices. All values assume reinvestment of the pre-tax value of dividends paid by companies included in these indices. The historical stock price performance of our Common Stock shown in the graph below is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.    

This performance graph shall not be deemed "filed" for purposes of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, or incorporated by reference into any filing of ours under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, or the Securities Exchange Act, except as shall be expressly set forth by specific reference to such filing. 
  Issuance of Common Stock upon Conversion of Notes 
  In 2016, we settled the conversion of   $12.9 million   principal amount of our 1.875% convertible senior notes through the payment of   $12.9 million   in cash (equal to the principal amount of the converted Notes) and issuance of   121,058   shares of our Common Stock to the holders of the Notes surrendered for conversion. We issued and sold the Notes in October 2011 in a private placement in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by Section 4(2) of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. In connection with these conversions, we exercised a proportionate amount of our convertible note hedges, as a result of which we received from our hedge counterparties   121,048   shares of our Common Stock.  
  
   60 

Table of Contents  

Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  The following table reflects shares of Common Stock withheld by us for employees to satisfy their tax withholding obligations arising upon the vesting of restricted equity awards granted under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan or the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan in the fourth quarter of 2016. 
                                         Period 
      
    Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased 
      
    Average Price Paid per Share (or Unit) 
      
    Total Number of Shares (or Units) Purchased as Part of Publicly Announced Plans or Programs 
      
    Maximum Number (or Approximate Dollar Value) of Shares (or Units) that May Yet Be Purchased Under the Plans or Programs 

10/1/2016-10/31/2016 
      
    184 

$ 
    371.33 

61 

Table of Contents  

Item 6. Selected Financial Data 
  The selected financial data set forth below for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014 and as of December 31, 2016 and 2015 are derived from and should be read in conjunction with our audited financial statements, including the notes thereto, included elsewhere in this report. The selected financial data for the years ended December 31, 2013 and 2012 and as of December 31, 2014, 2013, and 2012 are derived from our audited financial statements not included in this report.  

(1)     As a result of our 2016 adoption of Financial Accounting Standards Board (FASB) Accounting Standards Update 2016-09,   Compensation - Stock Compensation, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,   income taxes for the year ended December 31, 2016 included excess tax benefits in connection with stock-based compensation (previously, excess tax benefits were recognized in additional paid-in capital). Income tax benefit for the year ended December 31, 2012 was primarily attributable to the release of substantially all of the valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets.  
  
   62 

Table of Contents  

(2)      In December 2016, we entered into an agreement to purchase facilities in Tarrytown, New York. Certain of the premises subject to the Purchase Agreement were historically accounted for as operating leases, and the related leases were deemed to be modified, as we now have the option to purchase such facilities. Consequently, the leases for such premises were re-classified as capital leases upon execution of the Purchase Agreement. See Note 12a to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
   
           ITEM 7. 
    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
      
  The following discussion should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this report. 
  Overview 
  We are a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. We commercialize medicines for eye diseases, high LDL cholesterol, and a rare inflammatory condition and have product candidates in development in other areas of high unmet medical need, including rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, atopic dermatitis, pain, cancer, and infectious diseases. 
  As described in Part I, Item 1. "Business - General," and "Business - Marketed Products," we currently have five products that have received marketing approval: EYLEA (aflibercept) Injection, Praluent (alirocumab) Injection, ARCALYST (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use, Kevzara (sarilumab) Solution for Subcutaneous Injection, and ZALTRAP (ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion. We also have   16   product candidates in clinical development, all of which were discovered in our research laboratories. These consist of a Trap-based clinical program and   15   fully human monoclonal antibody product candidates, as summarized in Part I, Item 1. "Business - General."  
  The planning, execution, and results of our clinical programs are significant factors that can affect our operating and financial results. In our clinical programs, key events in 2016 and 2017 to date were, and plans for the remainder of 2017 are, as follows:    
  Trap-based Clinical Program:                         
      
    2016 and 2017 Events to Date 
      
    2017 Plans 
      EYLEA 
      
    Bayer received regulatory approval for EYLEA for various indications and continued to pursue regulatory applications for marketing approval in additional countries 
      
    Bayer to submit for additional regulatory approvals outside the United States for various indications 

Regulatory agency decisions on applications outside the United States for various indications 

Initiated Phase 3 study for the treatment of NPDR in patients without DME 
      
    Continue patient enrollment in Phase 3 study for the treatment of NPDR in patients without DME 

Reported positive top-line results from Phase 3 study in Japan for the treatment of NVG 

63 

Table of Contents  

Antibody-based Clinical Programs: 

2016 and 2017 Events to Date 
          
    2017 Plans 
      Praluent (PCSK9 Antibody) 
      
    Reported positive results from Phase 3 ODYSSEY ESCAPE trial 
      
    Complete ODYSSEY OUTCOMES study 

DMC of ODYSSEY OUTCOMES study completed the first interim analysis for futility and recommended the study to continue with no changes 
      
    Submit for additional regulatory approvals outside the United States 

Supplemental BLA for monthly dosing regimen accepted for review by the FDA 
      
    Regulatory agency and reimbursement authority decisions on applications outside the United States 

Regulatory application filed for monthly dosing regimen in the EU 
      
    FDA target action date of April 24, 2017 for monthly dosing regimen 

Japanese MHLW approved Praluent for the treatment of uncontrolled LDL cholesterol in certain adult patients 

ODYSSEY study data presented at the AHA Scientific Sessions 2016 

DMC of ODYSSEY OUTCOMES study completed the second interim analysis for futility and overwhelming efficacy and recommended the study continue as planned 

European Commission approved 300mg every 4 week dosing regimen 

Court issued a permanent injunction barring commercialization of Praluent in the United States beginning February 21, 2017. On February 8, 2017, an emergency motion to stay (suspend) the injunction pending appeal was granted  

FDA extended review period for the supplemental BLA for monthly dosing regimen  

Sarilumab (IL-6R Antibody) 
      
    Reported positive top-line results from Phase 3 SARIL-RA-MONARCH trial 
      
    Re-submission of the BLA contingent upon successful completion of FDA re-inspection of Le Trait facility 

Regulatory applications submitted in the EU, Japan, and other jurisdictions outside the United States 
      
    Assuming successful re-submission, FDA action expected in the second quarter of 2017 

Presented 52-week top-line data from Phase 2 SARIL-NIU-SATURN study at American Academy of Ophthalmology conference 
      
    Submit for additional regulatory approvals outside the United States 

FDA issued CRL regarding the BLA 
      
    Regulatory agency decisions on applications outside the United States 

Initiated Phase 2 study in pcJIA 

Presented detailed results of SARIL-RA-MONARCH study at ACR Annual Meeting 

Health Canada approved Kevzara       for the treatment of adult patients with RA 

64 

Table of Contents  

Antibody-based Clinical Programs (continued): 

2016 and 2017 Events to Date 
          
    2017 Plans 
      Dupilumab (IL-4R Antibody) 
      
    Reported positive top-line results from Phase 3 LIBERTY AD SOLO 1 and SOLO 2 trials in atopic dermatitis 
      
    FDA target action date of March 29, 2017 for atopic dermatitis  

Initiated and completed enrollment in Phase 3 LIBERTY AD CAF  study in atopic dermatitis 
      
    Submit for additional regulatory approvals in atopic dermatitis outside the United States 

Reported positive results from Phase 3 LIBERTY AD CHRONOS study in atopic dermatitis 
      
    Report results from Phase 3 asthma study 

FDA accepted for priority review the BLA for atopic dermatitis 
      
    Submit sBLA for asthma in adults 

LIBERTY AD SOLO 1 and SOLO 2 results presented at EADV conference and simultaneously published in the   New England Journal of Medicine 
      
    Report results from Phase 2 study in EoE 

Completed patient enrollment in pivotal Phase 3 LIBERTY ASTHMA QUEST study 
      
    Initiate Phase 3 studies in pediatric patients in atopic dermatitis and asthma 

FDA granted Breakthrough Therapy designation for the treatment of atopic dermatitis in pediatric patients 
      
    Initiate Phase 2 study in food allergies 

EMA accepted for review the MAA for atopic dermatitis 

Initiated Phase 3 study in patients with nasal polyps 

Completed patient enrollment in Phase 2 study in EoE 

REGN2222 (RSV-F Antibody) 

Complete patient enrollment in Phase 3 NURSERY Pre-Term study 

Report results from Phase 3 study 
      Fasinumab (NGF Antibody) 
      
    Initiated Phase 3 long-term safety study in patients with osteoarthritis of knee or hip 
      
    Continue patient enrollment in Phase 3 long-term safety study in osteoarthritis 

Initiated Phase 2b study in chronic low back pain 
      
    Report additional data from Phase 2/3 study in patients with osteoarthritis pain 

Reported positive top-line results from Phase 2/3 study in patients with osteoarthritis pain 
      
    Initiate additional Phase 3 study in patients with osteoarthritis pain 

Phase 2b study in chronic low back pain put on clinical hold by FDA 
      
    Initiate Phase 3 study in chronic low back pain  

Performed an unplanned interim review of Phase 2b study results in chronic low back pain 

Evinacumab (Angptl-3 Antibody) 
      
    FDA granted orphan-drug designation for treatment of HoFH 
      
    Report additional results from Phase 2 HoFH study 

Completed Phase 1 study in patients with dyslipidemia 

Reported positive interim results from ongoing proof-of-concept study in patients with HoFH 

Completed patient enrollment in Phase 2 HoFH study 

65 

Table of Contents  

Antibody-based Clinical Programs (continued): 

2016 and 2017 Events to Date 
          
    2017 Plans 
      Rinucumab/aflibercept (PDGFR-beta Antibody co-formulated with aflibercept) 
      
    Completed patient enrollment in Phase 2 study and reported top-line results 

Discontinued clinical development program 

Nesvacumab/aflibercept (Ang2 Antibody co-formulated with aflibercept) 
      
    Initiated Phase 2 studies in wet AMD and DME 
      
    Report results from Phase 2 studies 
        
    Completed patient enrollment in Phase 2 RUBY study in DME 

Completed patient enrollment in Phase 2 ONYX study in wet AMD 

REGN2810 (PD-1 Antibody) 
      
    Continued patient enrollment in Phase 1 study 
      
    Continue patient enrollment in Phase 1 and Phase 2 studies 

Initiated Phase 2 potentially pivotal study for the treatment of advanced cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma 
      
    Initiate Phase 2 study in non-small cell lung cancer  

Presented positive Phase 1 results from a dose-ranging study in heavily-pretreated patients with solid tumor cancers 
      
    Initiate Phase 2 study in basal cell carcinoma  
      Trevogrumab (GDF8 Antibody) 
      
    Initiated Phase 1 combination therapy study with REGN2477 
      
    Continue patient enrollment in Phase 1 study 
      REGN1908-1909 (Feld1 Antibody) 
      
    Completed initial proof-of-concept study 
      
    Continue early stage development 
      REGN1979 (CD20 and CD3 Antibody) 
      
    Continued patient enrollment in Phase 1 study 
      
    Complete patient enrollment in Phase 1 study 

Initiated Phase 1 study in combination with REGN2810 for treatment of B-cell malignancies 

REGN3470-3471-3479 (Antibody to Ebola virus) 
      
    Initiated Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers 
      
    Initiate additional healthy volunteer study 

FDA granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of Ebola virus infection 

Completed patient enrollment in Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers  

REGN2477 (Activin A Antibody) 
      
    Initiated Phase 1 combination therapy study with trevogrumab in healthy volunteers 
      
    Initiate Phase 2 study in FOP patients 

Completed patient enrollment in Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers 

FDA granted orphan drug designation for the treatment of FOP 

REGN3500 (IL-33 Antibody) 
      
    Initiated Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers 
      
    Initiate Phase 2 study in patients 

Completed patient enrollment in Phase 1 study in healthy volunteers  

Initiated Phase 1 study in patients with mild asthma 

REGN3767 (LAG-3 Antibody) 
      
    Initiated Phase 1 study (administered alone or in combination with REGN2810) in advanced malignancies  
      
    Continue patient enrollment in Phase 1 study 

66 

Table of Contents  

Developing and commercializing new medicines entails significant risk and expense. Before significant revenues from the commercialization of our antibody candidates or new indications for our marketed products can be realized, we (or our collaborators) must overcome a number of hurdles which include successfully completing research and development and obtaining regulatory approval from the FDA and regulatory authorities in other countries. In addition, the biotechnology and pharmaceutical industries are rapidly evolving and highly competitive, and new developments may render our products and technologies uncompetitive or obsolete. 
  Our ability to continue to generate profits and to generate positive cash flow from operations over the next several years depends significantly on our continued success in commercializing EYLEA. We expect to continue to incur substantial expenses related to our research and development activities, a significant portion of which we expect to be reimbursed by our collaborators. Also, our research and development activities outside our collaborations, the costs of which are not reimbursed, are expected to expand and require additional resources. We also expect to incur substantial costs related to the commercialization of Praluent and preparation for potential commercialization of sarilumab and Dupixent, approximately half of which we expect to be reimbursed by Sanofi under the companies' collaboration agreement. Our financial results may fluctuate from quarter to quarter and will depend on, among other factors, the net sales of our marketed products, the scope and progress of our research and development efforts, the timing of certain expenses, the continuation of our collaborations, in particular with Sanofi and Bayer, including our share of collaboration profits or losses from sales of commercialized products and the amount of reimbursement of our research and development expenses that we receive from collaborators, and the amount of income tax expense we incur, which is partly dependent on the profits or losses we earn in each of the countries in which we operate. We cannot predict whether or when new products or new indications for marketed products will receive regulatory approval or, if any such approval is received, whether we will be able to successfully commercialize such product(s) and whether or when they may become profitable. 
   
  Critical Accounting Policies and Use of Estimates 
  A summary of the significant accounting policies that impact us is provided in Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. The preparation of financial statements in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America (GAAP) requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect reported amounts and related disclosures in the financial statements. Management considers an accounting estimate to be critical if: 
             
    it requires an assumption (or assumptions) regarding a future outcome; and 
                
    changes in the estimate or the use of different assumptions to prepare the estimate could have a material effect on our results of operations or financial condition. 
     Management believes the current assumptions used to estimate amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements are appropriate. However, if actual experience differs from the assumptions used in estimating amounts reflected in our Consolidated Financial Statements, the resulting changes could have a material adverse effect on our results of operations, and in certain situations, could have a material adverse effect on our liquidity and financial condition. The critical accounting estimates that impact our Consolidated Financial Statements are described below.   
  Revenue Recognition 
  Product Revenue 
  Product sales consist of U.S. sales of EYLEA and ARCALYST. Revenue from product sales is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title to product and associated risk of loss have passed to the customer, the price is fixed or determinable, collection from the customer is reasonably assured, we have no further performance obligations, and returns can be reasonably estimated. We record revenue from product sales upon delivery to our distributors and specialty pharmacies (collectively, our customers).   
  Revenue from product sales is recorded net of applicable provisions for rebates and chargebacks under governmental and other programs, such as Medicaid and Veterans' Administration (VA), distribution-related fees, prompt pay discounts, and other sales-related deductions. We estimate reductions to product sales based upon contracts with customers and government agencies, statutorily-defined discounts applicable to government-funded programs, historical experience, estimated payer mix, inventory levels in the distribution channel, shelf life of the product, and other relevant factors. Calculating these provisions involves estimates and judgments. We review our estimates of rebates, chargebacks, and other applicable provisions each period and record any necessary adjustments in the current period's net product sales. The following table summarizes the provisions, and credits/payments, for sales-related deductions. 
  
   67 

Table of Contents  

Collaboration Revenue  
  We earn collaboration revenue in connection with collaboration agreements to develop and commercialize product candidates and utilize our technology platforms. These arrangements may require us to deliver various rights, services, and/or goods across the entire life cycle of a product or product candidate. The terms of these agreements typically include that consideration be provided to us in the form of non-refundable up-front payments, research progress (milestone) payments, payments for development and commercialization activities, and sharing of profits or losses arising from the commercialization of products. In arrangements involving multiple deliverables, we must determine whether each deliverable qualifies as a separate unit of accounting, whether the deliverables have value to the collaborator on a standalone basis, and how the consideration should be allocated to each separate unit of accounting based on the relative selling price of each deliverable. Payments which are based on achieving a specific substantive performance milestone, involving a degree of risk, are recognized as revenue when the milestone is achieved and the related payment is due and non-refundable, provided there is no future service obligation associated with that milestone. In determining whether a payment is deemed to be a substantive performance milestone, we take into consideration (i) the enhancement in value to the related development product candidate, (ii) our performance and the relative level of effort required to achieve the milestone, (iii) whether the milestone relates solely to past performance, and (iv) whether the milestone payment is considered reasonable relative to all of the deliverables and payment terms. Payments for achieving milestones which are not considered substantive are deferred and recognized over the related performance period.   
  In connection with non-refundable licensing payments, our performance period estimates are principally based on projections of the scope, progress, and results of our research and development activities. Due to the variability in the scope of activities and length of time necessary to develop a drug product, changes to development plans as programs progress, and uncertainty in the ultimate requirements to obtain governmental approval for commercialization, revisions to performance period estimates are likely to occur periodically, and could result in material changes to the amount of revenue recognized each year in the future. In addition, our estimated performance periods may change if development programs encounter delays, or we and our collaborators decide to expand or contract our clinical plans for a drug candidate in various disease indications.  
  When we are entitled to reimbursement of all or a portion of the research and development expenses that we incur under a collaboration, we record those reimbursable amounts as collaboration revenue proportionately as we recognize our expenses. If the collaboration is a cost-sharing arrangement in which both we and our collaborator perform development work and share costs, we also recognize, as research and development expense in the period when our collaborator incurs development expenses, the portion of the collaborator's development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse. Our collaborators provide us with estimated development expenses for the most recent fiscal quarter. Our collaborators' estimates are reconciled to their actual expenses for such quarter in the subsequent fiscal quarter, and our portion of our collaborators' development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse is adjusted on a prospective basis accordingly, as necessary. 
  Under our collaboration agreements, product sales and cost of sales for products which are currently approved are recorded by our collaborators. We share in any profits or losses arising from the commercialization of such products. Our collaborator provides us with our estimated share of the profits or losses from commercialization of such products for the most recent fiscal quarter. Our collaborators' estimates of profits or losses for such quarter are reconciled to actual profits or losses in the subsequent fiscal quarter, and our share of the profit or loss is adjusted on a prospective basis accordingly, as necessary. 
  
   68 

Table of Contents  

Clinical Trial Expenses 
  Clinical trial costs are a significant component of research and development expenses and include costs associated with third-party contractors. We outsource a substantial portion of our clinical trial activities, utilizing external entities such as CROs, independent clinical investigators, and other third-party service providers to assist us with the execution of our clinical studies. For each clinical trial that we conduct, certain clinical trial costs are expensed immediately, while others are expensed over time based on the expected total number of patients in the trial, the rate at which patients enter the trial, and/or the period over which clinical investigators or CROs are expected to provide services.  
  Clinical activities which relate principally to clinical sites and other administrative functions to manage our clinical trials are performed primarily by CROs. CROs typically perform most of the start-up activities for our trials, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, and program management. On a budgeted basis, these start-up costs are typically 10% to 20% of the total contract value. On an actual basis, this percentage range can be significantly wider, as many of our contracts with CROs are either expanded or reduced in scope compared to the original budget, while start-up costs for the particular trial may not change materially. These start-up costs usually occur within a few months after the contract has been executed and are event driven in nature. The remaining activities and related costs, such as patient monitoring and administration, generally occur ratably throughout the life of the individual contract or study. In the event of early termination of a clinical trial, we accrue and recognize expenses in an amount based on our estimate of the remaining non-cancelable obligations associated with the winding down of the clinical trial and/or penalties.   
  For clinical study sites, where payments are made periodically on a per-patient basis to the institutions performing the clinical study, we accrue expenses on an estimated cost-per-patient basis, based on subject enrollment and activity in each quarter. The amount of clinical study expense recognized in a quarter may vary from period to period based on the duration and progress of the study, the activities to be performed by the sites each quarter, the required level of patient enrollment, the rate at which patients actually enroll in and drop-out of the clinical study, and the number of sites involved in the study. Clinical trials that bear the greatest risk of change in estimates are typically those that have a significant number of sites, require a large number of patients, have complex patient screening requirements, and span multiple years. During the course of a trial, we adjust our rate of clinical expense recognition if actual results differ from our estimates. Our estimates and assumptions for clinical expense recognition could differ significantly from our actual results, which could cause material increases or decreases in research and development expenses in future periods when the actual results become known.  
  Stock-based Compensation 
  We recognize stock-based compensation expense for grants of stock option awards and restricted stock under our long-term incentive plans to employees and non-employee members of our board of directors based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The grant-date fair value of an award is generally recognized as compensation expense over the award's requisite service period.  
  We use the Black-Scholes model to compute the estimated fair value of stock option awards. Using this model, fair value is calculated based on assumptions with respect to (i) expected volatility of our Common Stock price, (ii) the periods of time over which employees and members of our board of directors are expected to hold their options prior to exercise (expected lives), (iii) expected dividend yield on our Common Stock, and (iv) risk-free interest rates, which are based on quoted U.S. Treasury rates for securities with maturities approximating the options' expected lives. Expected volatility has been estimated based on actual movements in our stock price over the most recent historical periods equivalent to the options' expected lives. Expected lives are principally based on our historical exercise experience with previously issued employee and board of directors option grants. The expected dividend yield is zero as we have never paid dividends and do not currently anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. Stock-based compensation expense also includes an estimate, which is made at the time of grant, of the number of awards that are expected to be forfeited. This estimate is revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.   
  The assumptions used in computing the fair value of option awards reflect our best estimates but involve uncertainties related to market and other conditions, many of which are outside of our control. Changes in any of these assumptions may materially affect the fair value of stock options granted and the amount of stock-based compensation recognized in future periods.  
  
   69 

Table of Contents  

Income Taxes 
  We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined on the basis of the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their respective financial reporting amounts ("temporary differences") at enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. We periodically re-assess the need for a valuation allowance against our deferred tax assets based on various factors including our historical earnings experience by taxing jurisdiction, and forecasts of future operating results and utilization of net operating losses and tax credits prior to their expiration. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment.  
  Uncertain tax positions, for which management's assessment is that there is more than a 50% probability of sustaining the position upon challenge by a taxing authority based upon its technical merits, are subjected to certain recognition and measurement criteria. Significant judgment is required in making this assessment, and therefore, we re-evaluate uncertain tax positions and consider various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, and changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. We adjust the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the uncertain positions.  
  Inventories 
  We capitalize inventory costs associated with our products prior to regulatory approval when, based on management's judgment, future commercialization is considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected to be realized; otherwise, such costs are expensed as research and development. The determination to capitalize inventory costs is based on various factors, including status and expectations of the regulatory approval process, any known safety or efficacy concerns, potential labeling restrictions, and any other impediments to obtaining regulatory approval.  
  We periodically analyze our inventory levels to identify inventory that may expire prior to expected sale or has a cost basis in excess of its estimated realizable value, and write-down such inventories as appropriate. In addition, our products are subject to strict quality control and monitoring which we perform throughout the manufacturing process. If certain batches or units of product no longer meet quality specifications or become obsolete due to expiration, we record a charge to cost of goods sold to write down such unmarketable inventory to its estimated realizable value. In 2016, 2015, and 2014, cost of goods sold included inventory write-downs and reserves totaling   $14.0 million  ,   $10.6 million  , and   $6.0 million  , respectively.  
  Contingencies 
  We accrue, based on management's judgment, for an estimated loss when the potential loss from claims or legal proceedings is considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. As additional information becomes available, or based on specific events such as the outcome of litigation or settlement of claims, we reassess the potential liability related to pending claims and litigation, and may change our estimates.  
  
   70 

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations    
  Net Income 

Revenues 

Net Product Sales 
  Net product sales consist of U.S. sales of EYLEA and ARCALYST. We received marketing approval from the FDA for EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in 2011, macular edema following CRVO in 2012, DME and macular edema following BRVO in 2014, and diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME in 2015. In   2016  , EYLEA net product sales increased to   $3,323.1 million   from   $2,676.0 million   in   2015  , and   $1,736.4 million   in   2014   due to higher sales volume. In   2016  ,   2015  , and 2014, we also recognized ARCALYST net product sales of   $15.3 million  ,   $13.5 million  , and   $14.4 million  , respectively. 
  
   71 

Table of Contents  

Sanofi Collaboration Revenue 

In   2016  , Sanofi's reimbursement of our antibody research and development expenses consisted of   $130.0   million under our Antibody Discovery Agreement and   $434.9   million under our License and Collaboration Agreement, compared to   $145.0   million and   $590.4   million, respectively, in   2015  , and $160.0 million and $387.8 million, respectively, in 2014. Under the amended Antibody Discovery Agreement, Sanofi agreed to fund our antibody discovery activities up to   $130.0   million, $145.0 million, and $160.0 million in   2016  ,   2015  , and 2014, respectively. The lower reimbursement of research and development costs under our License and Collaboration Agreement in   2016   compared to   2015   was primarily due to decreased collaboration development activities for Praluent, dupilumab, and REGN2222. In   2016  , Sanofi no longer co-develops and reimburses us for development activities for REGN2222. The higher reimbursement of development costs in 2015 compared to 2014 was primarily due to increased development activities for dupilumab. 
  Reimbursement of Regeneron commercialization-related expenses represents reimbursement of internal and external costs in connection with preparing to commercialize or commercializing, as applicable, Praluent, sarilumab, and, effective in the first quarter of 2016, dupilumab.  
  In 2014, we and Sanofi began sharing commercial expenses related to Praluent and sarilumab in accordance with the companies' License and Collaboration Agreement. In addition, effective in the first quarter of 2016, we and Sanofi also began sharing pre-launch commercialization expenses related to dupilumab. As such, during the same periods in which we recorded reimbursements from Sanofi related to our commercialization expenses, we also recorded our share of losses in connection with the companies preparing to commercialize or commercializing, as applicable, Praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab within Sanofi collaboration revenue. Our share of losses in connection with commercialization of antibodies increased in 2016 compared to 2015 due to higher commercialization expenses in connection with the ongoing launch of Praluent, and higher expenses in connection with preparing to commercialize sarilumab and dupilumab. Our share of losses in connection with commercialization of antibodies increased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily in connection with launching Praluent in the United States. In 2016, net product sales of Praluent in the United States were   $94.4 million   and net product sales of Praluent outside of the United States were   $21.9 million  . In 2015, net product sales of Praluent in the United States were   $9.5 million   and net product sales of Praluent outside of the United States were   $1.0 million  . 
  In July 2015, we and Sanofi entered into a global strategic collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology. In 2016, Sanofi's reimbursement of our immuno-oncology research and  
  
   72 

Table of Contents  

development expenses consisted of   $86.5   million under our IO Discovery Agreement and   $52.0   million under our IO License and Collaboration Agreement related to REGN2810, compared to   $29.2 million   and   $10.8 million  , respectively in 2015.  
  Other Sanofi immuno-oncology revenue includes recognition of deferred revenue from $640.0 million of up-front payments received in the third quarter of 2015 in connection with the execution of the IO Collaboration agreements. As of   December 31, 2016  ,   $520.0   million of the up-front payments was deferred and will be recognized ratably as revenue in future periods. 
  In February 2015, we entered into an Amended ZALTRAP Agreement with Sanofi which amended and restated the ZALTRAP Collaboration Agreement. Under the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement, Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP. As a result, in the first quarter of 2015, we recognized $14.9 million of collaboration revenue, which was previously recorded as deferred revenue under the original ZALTRAP collaboration agreement, related to (i) amounts that were previously reimbursed by Sanofi for manufacturing commercial supplies of ZALTRAP since our risk of inventory loss no longer existed, and (ii) the unamortized portion of up-front payments from Sanofi as we had no further performance obligations. 
  Bayer Collaboration Revenue 

Bayer commenced sales of EYLEA outside the United States for the treatment of wet AMD in 2012, macular edema secondary to CRVO in 2013, visual impairment due to DME and mCNV (in Japan) in 2014, and macular edema following BRVO in 2015. Regeneron's net profit in connection with commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States is summarized below.  

73 

Table of Contents  

Bayer records revenue from sales of EYLEA outside the United States. Our share of the profit we earned from commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States was partly offset by our contractual obligation to reimburse Bayer for a portion of the agreed-upon development expenses previously incurred by Bayer.  
  In 2015, we earned our final $15.0 million sales milestone from Bayer, upon total aggregate net sales of specific commercial supplies of EYLEA outside the United States exceeding $200.0 million over a twelve-month period. In 2014, we earned seven $15.0 million sales milestones from Bayer upon total aggregate net sales of EYLEA outside the United States achieving certain specified levels.  
  Cost-sharing of our global EYLEA development expenses with Bayer decreased in 2015 compared to 2014. In January 2014, Bayer decided to participate in the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO. In connection with this decision, Bayer reimbursed us $15.7 million for a defined share of the EYLEA global development costs that we had incurred prior to February 2014 for the BRVO indication, which was recognized as Bayer collaboration revenue in the first quarter of 2014. In addition, all future agreed-upon global EYLEA development expenses incurred in connection with BRVO are shared equally, and any future profits or losses on sales of EYLEA outside of the United States for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO are also shared (for countries other than Japan; we are entitled to receive a tiered percentage of EYLEA net sales in Japan). 
  Other EYLEA revenue primarily consists of reimbursement of other Regeneron EYLEA expenses, including reimbursements for producing EYLEA commercial supplies for Bayer. In addition, other EYLEA revenue in the first five months of 2016 and for the full year of 2015 and 2014 includes Bayer's share of royalties payable to Genentech pursuant to a license and settlement agreement in connection with sales of EYLEA outside the United States; the obligation to pay Genentech royalties on such sales ended in May 2016. Other EYLEA revenue also includes recognition of deferred revenue related to EYLEA up-front and 2007 non-substantive milestone payments from Bayer.  
  Cost-sharing of REGN2176-3 development expenses with Bayer commenced in the first quarter of 2014 following the execution of the companies' PDGFR-beta antibody collaboration agreement.     Under the agreement, we conduct the initial development of the PDGFR-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, and Bayer is obligated to pay 25% of global development costs and 50% of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States. Other PDGFR-beta antibody revenue consists of recognition of deferred revenue related to the PDGFR-beta up-front payment and non-substantive milestones received in the first quarter of 2014. As described above under Item 1. "Business - Clinical Programs - Ophthalmologic Diseases -   EYLEA - Ophthalmologic Diseases  ", we discontinued clinical development of REGN2176-3 in the first quarter of 2017. 
  As described above under "Collaboration Agreements - Collaborations with Bayer -   Ang2 antibody outside the United States  ," in March 2016, we entered into an agreement with Bayer governing the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of nesvacumab, an antibody product candidate to Ang2, including in combination with aflibercept, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. In connection with the agreement, Bayer made a   $50.0 million   non-refundable up-front payment to us, which was recorded as deferred revenue and is being recognized as revenue over the related performance period. Bayer is also obligated to pay   25%   of global development costs and   50%   of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States.  
  Other Revenue 
  As described in the "Collaboration Agreements" section above, in September 2015, we entered into a fasinumab collaboration agreement with MTPC, and, in September 2016, we entered into a fasinumab collaboration agreement with Teva. In connection with our fasinumab collaborations with MTPC and Teva, we recognized $14.4 million and $37.9 million, respectively, of other revenue during 2016. Revenue recognized during 2015 in connection with our fasinumab collaboration with MTPC was not material. 
  Under the terms of the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement, Sanofi bears the cost of all development and commercialization activities and reimburses Regeneron for its costs for any such activities. Sanofi pays us a percentage of aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP during each calendar year of between 15% to 30%, depending on the aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP in such calendar year. In connection with the February 2015 Amended ZALTRAP Agreement, in 2016 we recorded   $26.2 million   of revenue primarily related to a percentage of net sales of ZALTRAP that Sanofi is obligated to pay us and manufacturing ZALTRAP commercial supplies for Sanofi. In 2015, we recorded   $38.8 million   of revenue in connection with the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement primarily related to manufacturing ZALTRAP commercial supplies for Sanofi and a percentage of net sales of ZALTRAP from July 1, 2014 (the effective date of the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement) through December 31, 2015, which Sanofi is obligated to pay us. 
  
   74 

Table of Contents  

In connection with the amendment and extension of our   VelocImmune   license agreement with Astellas, in August 2010, we received a $165.0 million up-front payment, which was deferred upon receipt and is being recognized as revenue ratably over a seven-year period beginning in June 2011. In each of   2016  ,   2015  , and 2014, we recognized   $23.6   million of revenue related to this agreement. In addition, under a June 2009 agreement with Novartis, we receive royalties on worldwide sales of Novartis' Ilaris (canakinumab). In 2016, 2015, and 2014, other revenue included   $11.3 million  ,   $8.9 million  , and $7.9 million, respectively, of royalties from Novartis. 
  Expenses 
  Total operating expenses increased to   $3,529.7 million   in   2016  , from   $2,851.8 million   in   2015   and   $1,995.6 million   in 2014. Our average headcount in 2016 increased to   4,927   from   3,713   in   2015   and 2,629 in 2014, principally in connection with expanding our research and development, manufacturing, and commercialization activities. 
  Operating expenses in   2016  ,   2015  , and 2014, included a total of   $559.9 million  ,   $459.0 million  , and   $321.8 million  , respectively, of non-cash compensation expense related to employee stock option and restricted stock awards (Non-cash Compensation Expense). The increase in total Non-cash Compensation Expense was primarily attributable to the higher fair market value of our Common Stock on the date of our annual employee option grants made in December 2015 and 2014 compared to prior years. As of December 31,   2016  , unrecognized Non-cash Compensation Expense related to outstanding stock options was   $888.0 million   and unvested restricted stock awards was   $26.0 million  . We expect to recognize this Non-cash Compensation Expense related to stock options and restricted stock awards over weighted-average periods of   1.9   years and   1.2   years, respectively. 
  Research and Development Expenses 
  Research and development expenses increased to   $2,052.3 million   in   2016  , from   $1,620.6 million   in   2015   and   $1,271.4 million   in 2014. The following table summarizes the major categories of our research and development expenses: 

(1)    Includes Non-cash Compensation Expense of   $264.3   million in   2016  ,   $216.6   million in   2015  , and $157.1 million in 2014. 
   (2)    Represents the full cost of manufacturing drug for use in research, preclinical development, and clinical trials, as well as pre-launch commercial supplies which were not capitalized as inventory. Includes related payroll and benefits, Non-cash Compensation Expense, manufacturing materials and supplies, drug filling, packaging, and labeling costs, depreciation, and occupancy costs of our Rensselaer, New York manufacturing facility. Also includes Non-cash Compensation Expense of   $48.7   million in   2016  ,   $39.1   million in   2015  , and $27.2 million in 2014. 
   (3)    Under our collaborations with Bayer and Sanofi, in periods when Bayer or Sanofi incurs certain development expenses, we also recognize, as research and development expense, the portion of our collaborators' development expenses that we are obligated to reimburse.  
  Payroll and benefits increased principally due to the increase in employee headcount and Non-cash Compensation Expense, as described above. Clinical trial expenses increased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to the initiation of additional clinical studies of fasinumab and REGN2810, and continued enrollment in clinical studies of these two antibody product candidates, partly offset by lower costs in connection with our dupilumab clinical program as some later-stage studies were completed. Clinical trial expenses increased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to additional costs for clinical studies of dupilumab and fasinumab, partly offset by lower Praluent, EYLEA, and trevogrumab costs. Clinical manufacturing costs increased in 2016 compared to 2015  
  
   75 

Table of Contents  

primarily due to costs related to manufacturing additional drug supplies of dupilumab, fasinumab, and REGN2810, partly offset by lower costs related to manufacturing less clinical supplies of Praluent. Clinical manufacturing costs increased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to additional costs related to manufacturing drug supplies of dupilumab and, to a lesser extent, other late-stage antibody product candidates. Research, licensing, and other development costs increased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to the $75.0 million up-front payment made in connection with the April 2016 license and collaboration agreement with Intellia, the $25.0 million up-front payment made in connection with the July 2016 license and collaboration agreement with Adicet, and an increase in lab supplies in connection with early stage research activities. Research and other development costs decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to our 50% share ($33.8 million) of the cost of purchasing an FDA priority review voucher in 2014, partly offset by an increase in lab supplies in connection with early stage research activities. Cost-sharing of Bayer and Sanofi development expenses increased in 2016 compared to 2015 primarily due to our obligation to fund 20% of Sanofi's Phase 3 dupilumab development costs, which commenced during the first quarter of 2016, partly offset by lower development costs incurred by Sanofi and Bayer in connection with other shared programs. Cost-sharing of Bayer and Sanofi development expenses decreased in 2015 compared to 2014 primarily due to lower development costs incurred by Bayer in connection with EYLEA and Sanofi in connection with sarilumab.  
  We prepare estimates of research and development costs for projects in clinical development, which include direct costs and allocations of certain costs such as indirect labor, Non-cash Compensation Expense, and manufacturing and other costs related to activities that benefit multiple projects, and, under our collaborations with Bayer and Sanofi, the portion of Bayer's and Sanofi's respective development expenses which they incur and we are obligated to reimburse. Our estimates of research and development costs for clinical development programs are shown below: 

(1)     For the year ended December 31, 2016, includes the $75.0 million up-front payment made in connection with the April 2016 license and collaboration agreement with Intellia and the $25.0 million up-front payment made in connection with the July 2016 license and collaboration agreement with Adicet. 
  Drug development and approval in the United States is a multi-step process regulated by the FDA. The process begins with discovery and preclinical evaluation, leading up to the submission of an IND to the FDA which, if successful, allows the opportunity for study in humans, or clinical study, of the potential new drug. Clinical development typically involves three phases of study: Phases 1, 2, and 3. The most significant costs in clinical development are in Phase 3 clinical trials, as they tend to be the longest and largest studies in the drug development process. Following successful completion of Phase 3 clinical trials for a biological product, a BLA must be submitted to, and accepted by, the FDA and the FDA must approve the BLA prior to commercialization of the drug. It is not uncommon for the FDA to request additional data following its review of a BLA, which can significantly increase the drug development timeline and expenses. We may elect either on our own, or at the request of the FDA, to conduct further studies that are referred to as Phase 3b and 4 studies. Phase 3b studies are initiated and either completed or substantially completed while the BLA is under FDA review. These studies are conducted under an IND. Phase 4 studies, also referred to as post-marketing studies, are studies that are initiated and conducted after the FDA has approved a product for marketing. In addition, as discovery research, preclinical development, and clinical programs progress, opportunities to expand development of drug candidates into new disease indications can emerge. We may elect to add such new disease indications to our development efforts (with the approval of our collaborator for joint development programs), thereby extending the period in which we will be developing a product. 
  
   76 

Table of Contents  

There are numerous uncertainties associated with drug development, including uncertainties related to safety and efficacy data from each phase of drug development, uncertainties related to the enrollment and performance of clinical trials, changes in regulatory requirements, changes in the competitive landscape affecting a product candidate, and other risks and uncertainties described in Part I, Item 1A, "Risk Factors." The lengthy process of seeking FDA approvals, and subsequent compliance with applicable statutes and regulations, require the expenditure of substantial resources. Any failure by us to obtain, or delay in obtaining, regulatory approvals could materially adversely affect our business. 
  For these reasons and due to the variability in the costs necessary to develop a pharmaceutical product and the uncertainties related to future indications to be studied, the estimated cost and scope of the projects, and our ultimate ability to obtain governmental approval for commercialization, accurate and meaningful estimates of the total cost to bring our product candidates to market are not available. Similarly, we are unable to reasonably estimate if our product candidates in clinical development will generate material product revenues and net cash inflows. 
  Selling, General, and Administrative Expenses 
  Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased to   $1,177.7 million   in   2016   from   $838.5 million   in   2015   primarily due to (i) higher commercialization-related expenses associated with Praluent and higher commercialization-related expenses in connection with preparing to launch sarilumab and dupilumab, (ii) higher contributions to not-for-profit organizations, including donations to independent not-for-profit patient assistance organizations, (iii) higher headcount and headcount-related costs, and (iv) higher Non-cash Compensation Expense principally for the reason described under "Expenses" above. Selling, general, and administrative expenses increased to   $838.5 million   in 2015 from   $519.3 million   in 2014 primarily due to higher headcount and headcount-related costs, higher non-cash Compensation Expense principally for the reason described under "Expenses" above, and higher commercialization-related expenses primarily associated with EYLEA and Praluent. Selling, general, and administrative expenses included   $231.2 million  ,   $193.0 million  , and $134.7 million of Non-cash Compensation Expense in   2016  ,   2015  , and 2014, respectively. 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses in 2014 included a $40.6 million incremental charge related to the Branded Prescription Drug Fee, which is a non-tax deductible annual fee imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. In July 2014, the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) issued final regulations that provide guidance on the Branded Prescription Drug Fee. As a result of the issuance of these final IRS regulations, an incremental charge was recorded to (i) recognize a liability for the estimated fee payable based on 2014 sales through the first nine months of 2014, and (ii) expense the remaining prepaid asset recorded under the previous accounting for the estimated fee payable based on 2013 sales. The impact of the 2014 incremental charge was offset by a higher Branded Prescription Drug Fee expense in 2015 due to higher sales of EYLEA in the United States.   
  Cost of Goods Sold 
  Cost of goods sold decreased to   $194.6 million   in   2016   from   $241.7 million   in   2015  . Cost of goods sold primarily consists of costs in connection with producing U.S. EYLEA commercial supplies, various start-up costs in connection with our Limerick, Ireland commercial manufacturing facility, and royalties. Cost of goods sold decreased in 2016 compared to 2015 principally due to the fact that, effective May 2016, we are no longer obligated to pay royalties to Genentech based on U.S. sales of EYLEA. This decrease was partly offset by an increase in Limerick start-up costs and an increase in U.S. EYLEA net sales. Cost of goods sold increased to   $241.7 million   in 2015 from   $129.0 million   in 2014 principally due to the increase in U.S. EYLEA net sales, as well as an increase in Limerick start-up costs. In   2016  ,   2015  , and 2014, cost of goods sold included inventory write-downs and reserves totaling   $14.0 million  ,   $10.6 million  , and   $6.0 million  , respectively.  
  Cost of Collaboration and Contract Manufacturing 
  Cost of collaboration and contract manufacturing, which includes costs we incur in connection with producing commercial drug supplies for Sanofi and Bayer, decreased to   $105.1 million   in   2016   from   $151.0 million   in   2015  . This decrease was primarily due to lower royalties since our obligation to pay Genentech based on sales of EYLEA outside the United States also ended in May 2016.  
  Cost of collaboration and contract manufacturing increased to   $151.0 million   in 2015 from   $76.0 million   in 2014. This increase was primarily due to the recognition of costs associated with commercial supplies of ZALTRAP, as well as royalties payable     to Genentech in connection with higher sales of EYLEA outside the United States and the recognition of costs associated with commercial supplies of EYLEA manufactured for Bayer. Under our collaboration arrangements, when the product is sold by our collaborators to third-party customers, our risk of inventory loss no longer exists, and we therefore recognize our related manufacturing costs for the sold product as cost of collaboration manufacturing. However, in February 2015, we entered into an Amended ZALTRAP Agreement with Sanofi. As a result, in the first quarter of 2015, we recognized as expense $20.2 million of inventoried costs for ZALTRAP commercial supplies that were previously shipped to Sanofi because our risk of inventory loss no longer exists under the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement.  
  
   77 

Table of Contents  

Other Income (Expense) 
  Total other expenses (net of other income) in 2016 decreased compared to 2015 primarily due to (i) recognition of a $0.5 million and $18.9 million loss in 2016 and 2015, respectively, in connection with Notes which were surrendered for conversion during the respective periods, (ii) a decrease in interest expense related to conversions of a substantial portion of the Notes in 2015, and (iii) an increase in investment income on our marketable securities, partly offset by a 2016 other-than-temporary impairment charge of   $9.8 million   related to our investment in Adverum Biotechnologies, Inc. (formerly Avalanche Biotechnologies, Inc.) common shares. The common shares of Adverum were previously acquired in connection with our research collaboration and license agreement with Adverum.  
  Total other expenses (net of other income) decreased to   $26.8 million   in 2015 from   $62.7 million   in 2014. Interest expense in   2015   decreased compared to 2014 primarily due to conversions of a substantial portion of our Notes in 2014 and 2015. In addition, in 2015 and 2014, we recognized a $18.9 million and a $33.5 million non-cash charge, respectively, in connection with Notes which were surrendered for conversion during the respective periods.   
  Income Taxes 
  In   2016  , we recorded income tax expense of   $434.3 million  , based on an effective tax rate of   32.7%  . The   2016   effective tax rate was positively impacted, compared to the U.S. federal statutory rate, by the tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation, the domestic manufacturing deduction, and the federal tax credit for research activities, offset by the negative impact of losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions with rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate and the non-tax deductible Branded Prescription Drug Fee. As described in Note 1 and Note 16 of our Consolidated Financial Statements, during 2016 we adopted Accounting Standards Update 2016-09, which requires an entity to recognize all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies  in connection with stock-based compensation as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement (previously, excess tax benefits were recognized in additional paid-in capital). 
  In   2015  , we recorded income tax expense of   $589.0 million  , based on an effective tax rate of   48.1%  . The   2015   effective tax rate was negatively impacted, compared to the U.S. federal statutory rate, by losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions with rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, partly offset by the positive impact of the domestic manufacturing deduction. 
  In   2014  , we recorded income tax expense of   $423.1 million  , based on an effective tax rate of   55.6%  . The   2014   effective tax rate was negatively impacted, compared to the U.S. federal statutory rate, by losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions with rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate and the non-tax deductible Branded Prescription Drug Fee. The negative impact of these items was partly offset by the positive impact of the federal tax credit for increased research activities and state income state credits. 
   
  Liquidity and Capital Resources 
  Our financial condition is summarized as follows: 

Additionally, as of   December 31, 2016  , we had borrowing availability of $750.0 million under a revolving credit facility (see further description under "  Credit Facility  " below). 
  
   78 

Table of Contents  

Sources and Uses of Cash for the Years Ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014    
  Cash Flows from Operating Activities 
  2016  .   Net cash provided by operating activities was   $1,473.4 million   in   2016  . Our net income in   2016   included Non-cash Compensation Expense of   $559.9 million  . Deferred tax assets as of   December 31, 2016   increased by   $360.1 million  , compared to   December 31, 2015  , primarily due to an increase in share-based compensation, the tax basis of intangible assets, and deferred revenue. 
  Inventories as of   December 31, 2016   increased by   $149.8 million  , compared to   December 31, 2015  , primarily due to increased production of commercial supplies of our drug products and preparing for commercial production to commence at our Limerick, Ireland facility. Deferred revenue increased by   $244.3 million   as of   December 31, 2016  , compared to   December 31, 2015  , primarily due to $250.0 million and $60.0 million of payments received during 2016 from Teva and Mitsubishi, respectively, in connection with the companies' respective fasinumab collaborations, and the $50.0 million up-front payment from Bayer in connection with the companies' Ang2 collaboration, partly offset primarily by the amortization of these 2016 payments and past up-front payments from Sanofi. Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities increased by   $254.0 million   as of   December 31, 2016  , compared to   December 31, 2015  , primarily due to higher tax related liabilities. 
  2015  .   Net cash provided by operating activities was   $1,330.8 million   in   2015  . Our net income in   2015   included Non-cash Compensation Expense of   $459.0 million  . In addition, deferred tax assets as of   December 31, 2015   increased by   $121.6 million  , compared to   December 31, 2014  , primarily due to an increase in Non-cash Compensation Expense, partly offset by a reduction in our deferred tax assets related to fixed assets and deferred revenue.  
  Inventories as of   December 31, 2015   increased by   $111.8 million  , compared to   December 31, 2014  , primarily due to increased production of EYLEA commercial supplies as well as capitalization of inventory in connection with Praluent production. Prepaid expenses and other assets increased by   $79.5 million   as of December 31, 2015, compared to December 31, 2014, primarily due to an increase in prepaid income taxes. Deferred revenue increased by   $608.9 million   as of December 31, 2015, compared to December 31, 2014, primarily due to $640.0 million of up-front payments received from Sanofi in connection with the companies' IO Collaboration, partly offset by related amortization which commenced in the third quarter of 2015. Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities increased by   $303.7 million   as of   December 31, 2015  , compared to   December 31, 2014  , primarily due to (i) higher accruals for sales-related charges and deductions, and royalties related to EYLEA, (ii) higher expenditures in connection with our expanding research and development activities, (iii) higher payroll and payroll-related costs, and (iv) higher tax-related liabilities. 
  2014  .   Net cash provided by operating activities was   $752.4 million   in   2014  . Our net income in   2014   included Non-cash Compensation Expense of   $321.8 million   and a $33.5 million loss on extinguishment of debt related to the conversion of our Notes during 2014. In addition, deferred tax assets as of   December 31, 2014   increased by   $53.3 million  , compared to end-of-year 2013, primarily due to an increase in Non-cash Compensation Expense partly offset by the reduction of our deferred tax assets related to the recently enacted New York State tax legislation, which reduced our New York State income tax rate to zero percent effective in 2014. 
  As of   December 31, 2014  , Sanofi, Bayer, and trade accounts receivable increased by   $34.9 million  , compared to end-of-year 2013, primarily due to higher amounts receivable from Bayer in connection with the commercialization of EYLEA outside of the United States, partly offset by lower trade accounts receivable resulting from shortened payment terms to certain of our U.S. EYLEA customers effective January 2014. Accounts payable, accrued expenses, and other liabilities increased by   $161.2 million   as of   December 31, 2014  , compared to end-of-year 2013, primarily due to (i) higher accruals for sales-related charges (including the impact of the Branded Prescription Drug Fee incremental charge as described above), deductions, and royalties related to EYLEA, (ii) higher payroll-related liabilities primarily driven by an increase in headcount, and (iii) higher expenditures in connection with our expanding research and development activities. 
  Cash Flows from Investing Activities 
  Net cash used in investing activities was   $1,046.9 million  ,   $907.6 million  , and   $420.8 million   in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. In   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , purchases of marketable securities exceeded sales or maturities by   $535.0 million  ,   $229.7 million  , and   $87.8 million  , respectively. Capital expenditures were   $511.9 million  ,   $677.9 million  , and   $333.0 million   in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. Capital expenditures in   2016   primarily included costs in connection with renovations of our Limerick, Ireland manufacturing facility, renovations and additions to certain areas of our Rensselaer, New York manufacturing facilities, the purchase of office buildings near our Rensselaer manufacturing facilities and Tarrytown facilities, and purchases of equipment. 
  
   79 

Table of Contents  

We expect to incur capital expenditures of   $375 million   to   $450 million   in 2017 primarily in connection with continued renovations of our Limerick, Ireland facility, expanding our Tarrytown, New York facilities, and expanding and renovating a portion of our manufacturing facilities at our Rensselaer, New York facility.  
  Cash Flows from Financing Activities 
  Net cash used in financing activities was   $700.4 million  ,   $262.8 million  , and   $218.5 million   in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. In   2016  ,   2015  , and 2014,   $12.9 million  ,   $166.5 million  , and   $220.6 million   principal amount of our Notes, respectively, that was previously surrendered for conversion was settled in cash. Also during   2016  ,   2015  , and 2014, we paid an aggregate amount of   $643.4 million  ,   $573.5 million  , and   $294.6 million  , respectively, to warrant holders to reduce the maximum number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants. Proceeds from issuances of Common Stock, in connection with exercises of employee stock options, were   $126.7 million   in   2016  , compared to   $206.4 million   in   2015   and   $126.0 million   in   2014  . In 2015 and 2014, cash flows from financing activities included   $405.3 million   and   $439.3 million  , respectively, due to utilization of excess tax benefits in connection with stock option exercises, which offset cash tax obligations. In 2016, we elected to adopt Accounting Standards Update 2016-09,   Compensation - Stock Compensation, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting  ;     consequently,     we began to record excess tax benefits as an operating activity in the statement of cash flows.  
  Convertible Senior Notes 
  In October 2011, we issued $400.0 million aggregate principal amount of Notes in a private placement. The Notes paid interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1, and any notes that were not converted earlier matured on October 1, 2016. The Notes were convertible, subject to certain conditions, into cash, shares of our Common Stock, or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock, at our option. See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  In connection with the initial offering of the Notes, we entered into convertible note hedge (call option) and warrant transactions with multiple counterparties. The convertible note hedge covered the number of shares of our Common Stock that initially underlie the Notes, and were intended to reduce the potential dilutive impact of the conversion feature of the Notes. The convertible note hedge also terminated upon the maturity date of the Notes. The warrants were to become exercisable at various dates during 2017; however, in the fourth quarter of 2016, we entered into agreements with warrant holders to cancel any remaining warrants held by the warrant holders and to terminate the respective warrant agreements. See Note 11 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Credit Facility 
  In March 2015, we entered into an agreement with a syndicate of lenders (the Credit Agreement) which provides for a   $750.0 million   senior unsecured five-year revolving credit facility (the Credit Facility). The Credit Agreement includes an option for us to elect to increase the commitments under the Credit Facility and/or to enter into one or more tranches of term loans in the aggregate principal amount of up to   $250.0 million   subject to the consent of the lenders providing the additional commitments or term loans, as applicable, and certain other conditions. Proceeds of the loans under the Credit Facility may be used to finance  working capital needs, and for general corporate or other lawful purposes, of Regeneron and its subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement also provides a   $100.0 million   sublimit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement includes an option for us to elect to extend the maturity date of the Credit Facility beyond March 2020, subject to the consent of the extending lenders and certain other conditions. Amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility may be prepaid, and the commitments under the Credit Facility may be terminated, at any time without premium or penalty. We had no borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of   December 31, 2016  .  
  Effective December 30, 2016, the Credit Agreement has been amended in connection with our proposed acquisition of the Facility (as described under  Tarrytown, New York Leases  below) and the related lease financing contemplated by us to provide that such lease financing and certain other lease or similar arrangements shall not constitute  Indebtedness  or  Capital Lease Obligations  for purposes of the Credit Agreement, including for purposes of calculating our total leverage ratio thereunder.   
  The Credit Agreement contains financial and operating covenants. Financial covenants include a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest expense coverage ratio. We were in compliance with all covenants of the Credit Facility as of   December 31, 2016  . 
  
   80 

Table of Contents  

License and Settlement Agreements with Genentech  
  As described above under Item 1. "Business - Patents, Trademarks, and Trade Secrets", in 2011 and 2013 we entered into license and settlement agreements with Genentech. The agreements provided for us to make payments to Genentech based on U.S. sales of EYLEA, as well as EYLEA manufactured in the United States and sold outside the United States, through May 7, 2016. EYLEA is sold outside the United States by affiliates of Bayer under our license and collaboration agreement with Bayer. Under the terms of the Genentech agreements, we were obligated to make a $60.0 million milestone payment and pay royalties of 4.75% on cumulative relevant sales of EYLEA between $400.0 million and $3.0 billion and 5.5% on cumulative relevant sales of EYLEA over $3.0 billion. All payments to Genentech were made by Regeneron, and Bayer shared in all such payments based on the proportion of EYLEA sales outside the United States to worldwide EYLEA sales.  
  Tarrytown, New York Leases 
  We currently lease approximately   1,180,000   square feet of laboratory and office space at facilities in Tarrytown, New York.  Certain leased premises have historically been accounted for as operating leases. However, for certain other buildings that we lease (related to approximately   735,000   square feet), we are deemed, in substance, to be the owner of the landlord's buildings in accordance with the application of FASB authoritative guidance. Consequently, in addition to capitalizing the tenant improvements, we capitalized the landlord's costs of constructing these new facilities, offset by a corresponding facility lease obligation. In addition, we recognized, as additional facility lease obligation, reimbursements from our landlord for tenant improvement costs that we incurred since, under FASB authoritative guidance, such payments that we received from our landlord are deemed to be a financing obligation. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, the facility lease obligation balance related to these buildings was   $353.9 million   and   $364.7 million  , respectively. 
  On December 30, 2016, we entered into a Purchase Agreement with BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and BMR-Landmark at Eastview IV LLC (collectively, BMR), pursuant to which we have agreed to purchase BMR's Tarrytown, New York facilities (the Facility), which includes the   1,180,000   square feet of laboratory and office space described above, for a purchase price of $720.0 million, subject to certain customary adjustments. We currently occupy a significant portion of the Facility, with the remaining rentable area, or approximately 300,000 square feet, under leases to third-party tenants. In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement, we paid $57.0 million toward the purchase price to BMR in December 2016. The closing of the Purchase Agreement is anticipated in the first quarter of 2017.  
  We intend to fund the acquisition contemplated by the Purchase Agreement with a new financing. Accordingly, we have entered into an engagement letter with Banc of America Leasing   Capital, LLC (BAL), pursuant to which BAL has been engaged to use its best efforts to arrange a $720.0 million lease financing in connection with the acquisition contemplated by the Purchase Agreement. As part of the contemplated financing, we intend to assign some or all our rights under the Purchase Agreement (including the right to take title to the Facility) to an affiliate of BAL at the closing of the financing, as a result of which such affiliate will become the legal owner of the Facility (the Lessor). Upon assignment of our rights, we expect to be reimbursed by BAL or an affiliate of BAL for the $57.0 million payment we made in December 2016. Immediately thereafter, we intend to lease the Facility from the Lessor for a term of five years. At the end of the lease term, we expect to have an option to extend the term of the lease (subject to the consent of the financing providers), purchase the Facility at a predetermined amount, or sell the Facility to a third party on behalf of the Lessor.  
  Funding Requirements 
  The amount we need to fund operations will depend on various factors, including revenues from net product sales, the potential regulatory approval and commercialization of our product candidates and the timing thereof, the status of competitive products, the success of our research and development programs, the potential future need to expand our professional and support staff and facilities, the status of patents and other intellectual property rights (and future litigation related thereto), the delay or failure of a clinical trial of any of our potential drug candidates, and the continuation, extent, and success of our collaborations (in particular those with Sanofi and Bayer). We believe that our existing capital resources, borrowing availability under our revolving credit facility, funds generated by anticipated EYLEA net product sales, and, as described above under "Collaboration Agreements," funding for reimbursement of research and development costs that we are entitled to receive under our collaboration agreements, will enable us to meet our projected operating needs for the foreseeable future. 
  
   81 

Table of Contents  

The following table summarizes our contractual obligations as of December 31, 2016.   

(1)   
    Purchase and other obligations primarily relate to research and development commitments, including those related to clinical trials, funding in connection with our sponsorship of the Science Talent Search and other programs by the Society for Science   the Public, and capital expenditures. Our obligation to pay certain of these amounts may increase or be reduced based on certain future events. Open purchase orders for the acquisition of goods and services in the ordinary course of business are excluded from the table above. 
               (2)   
    Represents rent payments with respect to capital lease and facility lease obligations in connection with our property leases in Tarrytown, New York, as described under "  Tarrytown, New York Leases  " above and Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. Amounts in the table above exclude (i) potential future rent payments with respect to the lease we anticipate entering into in 2017, and (ii) the potential purchase price we would be obligated to pay if the anticipated financing pursuant to the engagement letter with BAL is not obtained.  
               (3)   
    Excludes future contingent costs for utilities, real estate taxes, and operating expenses.  
     Liabilities for unrecognized tax benefits, totaling   $117.2 million   at December 31, 2016, are not included in the table of contractual obligations above as, due to their nature, there is a high degree of uncertainty regarding the period of potential future cash settlement with taxing authorities. See Note 16 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  We expect continued increases in our expenditures, particularly in connection with our research and development activities (including preclinical and clinical programs). The amount of funding that will be required for our clinical programs depends upon the results of our research and preclinical programs and early-stage clinical trials, regulatory requirements, the duration and results of clinical trials underway and of additional clinical trials that we decide to initiate, and the various factors that affect the cost of each trial. As described within Item 1. "Business - Collaboration Agreements - Collaborations with Sanofi," pursuant to the Antibody Discovery Agreement, as amended, Sanofi is responsible for funding up to $130.0 million of our antibody discovery activities in 2017. Unless Sanofi, at its option, elects to extend antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected programs, any future funding after 2017 from Sanofi under the Antibody Discovery Agreement will cease to continue. Clinical trial costs are dependent, among other things, on the size and duration of trials (for example, we have several ongoing late-stage clinical trials which are large and for which we expect to incur significant costs), fees charged for services provided by clinical trial investigators and other third parties, the costs for manufacturing the product candidate for use in the trials, and for supplies, laboratory tests, and other expenses. 
  In addition to our anticipated commercialization costs for EYLEA and Praluent, we anticipate incurring substantial commercialization costs in connection with our late-stage antibody product candidates, including sarilumab and dupilumab. Commercialization costs over the next few years will depend on, among other things, whether or not our antibody product candidates in later stage clinical development receive regulatory approval, the market potential for product candidates, and the commercialization terms of our collaboration agreements, if applicable (whereby commercialization costs may be shared with our collaborators). Currently, we are required to pay royalties on sales of certain commercial products. In the future, if we are able to successfully develop, market, and sell certain of our product candidates, we may be required to pay additional royalties or share the profits from such sales pursuant to our license or collaboration agreements. In addition, under the provisions of the PPACA and the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010, the Branded Prescription Drug Fee is imposed on pharmaceutical manufacturers that sell branded prescription drugs to specified government programs. This fee is allocated to companies, including Regeneron, based on their market share of total branded prescription drug sales into these government programs.  
  We expect that expenses related to the filing, prosecution, defense, and enforcement of patents and other intellectual property will be substantial.  In addition, as described above under Item 3. "Legal Proceedings - Proceedings Relating to Praluent (alirocumab) Injection," the United States District Court for the District of Delaware issued a permanent injunction, which was stayed (suspended) pending appeal. If the injunction is upheld on appeal, it would prohibit us and the Sanofi defendants from commercializing Praluent  
  
   82 

Table of Contents  

in the United States. If we and Sanofi are not able to commercialize Praluent in the United States, our consolidated financial position, results of operations, and cash flows may be materially impacted. 
  We enter into research collaboration and licensing agreements that may require us to pay (i) amounts upon the achievement of various development and commercial milestones, which, in the aggregate, could be significant, and/or (ii) royalties calculated based on a percentage of net product sales. The payment of these amounts, however, is contingent upon the occurrence of various future events, which have a high degree of uncertainty of occurring and for which the specific timing cannot be predicted. Because of these factors, such payments are not included in the table of contractual obligations above. See Note 3 and Note 12 to our Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Under our Antibody and IO Collaborations with Sanofi and our collaboration with Bayer for EYLEA outside the United States, we and our collaborator share profits and losses in connection with commercialization of drug products. Profits or losses under each collaboration are measured by calculating net sales less cost of goods sold and shared commercialization and other expenses. If the applicable collaboration is profitable, we have contingent contractual obligations to reimburse Sanofi and Bayer for a defined percentage (generally 50%) of agreed-upon development expenses funded by Sanofi and Bayer. These reimbursements would be deducted each quarter, in accordance with a formula, from our share of the collaboration profits (and, for our EYLEA collaboration with Bayer, our percentage on product sales in Japan) otherwise payable to us, unless, in some cases, we elect to reimburse these expenses at a faster rate. In particular, as of December 31, 2016, our contingent reimbursement obligation to Bayer for EYLEA was approximately   $256 million   and our contingent reimbursement obligation to Sanofi in connection with the companies' Antibody Collaboration and IO Collaboration was approximately   $2,245 million   and   $3 million  , respectively. Therefore, we expect that, for the foreseeable future, a portion of our share of profits from sales of EYLEA outside the United States and a portion of our share of profits, if any, from sales of Praluent and, if approved, sarilumab, dupilumab, and other product candidates developed as part of the Sanofi Antibody and IO Collaborations will be used to reimburse our collaborator for these obligations.  
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  We do not have any off-balance sheet arrangements that are currently material or reasonably likely to be material to our consolidated financial position or results of operations. 
   
  Future Impact of Recently Issued Accounting Standards 
  See Note 1 to our Consolidated Financial Statements for a summary of recently issued accounting standards. 
   
  Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
  Interest Rate Risk 
  Our earnings and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in interest rates, principally in connection with our investments in marketable securities, which consist primarily of corporate bonds, direct obligations of the U.S. government and its agencies and other debt securities guaranteed by the U.S. government, and municipal bonds. We do not believe we are materially exposed to changes in interest rates. We do not currently use interest rate derivative instruments to manage exposure to interest rate changes. We estimate that a 100 basis point, or 1%, unfavorable change in interest rates would have resulted in approximately a $20.9 million and $11.7 million decrease in the fair value of our investment portfolio as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , respectively.  
  Credit Quality Risk 
  We have an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. Nonetheless, deterioration of the credit quality of an investment security subsequent to purchase may subject us to the risk of not being able to recover the full principal value of the security. During 2016,  we recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of   $9.8 million   related to our investment in an equity security (refer to Item 7. "Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Results of Operations -   Other Income (Expense)  " above for further details). In 2015 and 2014, we recorded no charges for other-than-temporary impairments of our marketable securities.  
  
   83 

Table of Contents  

We are also subject to credit risk in connection with accounts receivable from our product sales of EYLEA and ARCALYST. These accounts receivable are due from several distributors and specialty pharmacies, who are our customers. We have contractual payment terms with each of our customers, and we monitor our customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that we can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. In addition, we may insure a portion of our accounts receivables within our overall risk management practices. During 2016, 2015, and 2014, we did not recognize any charges for write-offs of accounts receivable related to our marketed products. As of   December 31, 2016  , three customers accounted on a combined basis for   99%   of our net trade accounts receivables. As of December 31, 2015, two customers accounted on a combined basis for   94%   of our net trade accounts receivables. 
  Foreign Exchange Risk 
  As discussed further above, Bayer markets EYLEA outside the United States and Sanofi markets Praluent worldwide, and we share in profits and losses with these collaborators from commercialization of products (including the receipt of a percentage of EYLEA sales in Japan). In addition, pursuant to the applicable terms of the agreements with our collaborators, we also share in certain worldwide development expenses incurred by our collaborators. We also incur worldwide development expenses for clinical products we are developing independently. Therefore, significant changes in foreign exchange rates of the countries outside the United States where our product is sold or where development expenses are incurred by us or our collaborators can impact our operating results and financial condition. As sales outside the United States continue to grow, and as we expand our international operations, we will continue to assess potential steps, including foreign currency hedging and other strategies, to mitigate our foreign exchange risk.   
   
  Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
  The financial statements required by this Item are included on pages F-1 through F-50 of this report. The supplementary financial information required by this Item is included at page F-50 of this report.    
   
  Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
  None. 
   
  Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures 
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  Our management, with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the "Exchange Act")) as of the end of the period covered by this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Based on this evaluation, our principal executive officer and principal financial officer each concluded that, as of the end of such period, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective in ensuring that information required to be disclosed by us in the reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported on a timely basis, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosures.   
  Management Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016   using the framework in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on that evaluation, our management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   December 31, 2016  . The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016   has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which appears under Item 15.  
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate.  
  
   84 

Table of Contents  

Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
   There has been no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the quarter ended   December 31, 2016   that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
  Our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or internal controls over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the system are met and cannot detect all deviations. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud or deviations, if any, within the company have been detected. Projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risks that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
   
  Item 9B.  Other Information 
  None. 
   
  PART III 
  Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
  The information required by this item (other than the information set forth in the next paragraph in this Item 10) will be included in our definitive proxy statement with respect to our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  We have adopted a code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our officers, directors, and employees. The full text of our code of business conduct and ethics can be found on our website (http://www.regeneron.com) under the "Investors   Media" heading on the "Corporate Governance" page. We may satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or a waiver from, a provision of our code of business conduct and ethics that applies to our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer, or controller, or persons performing similar functions, by posting such information on our website where it is accessible through the same link noted above.   
  Item 11.  Executive Compensation 
  The information called for by this item will be included in our definitive proxy statement with respect to our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC, and is incorporated herein by reference.  
  Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  The information called for by this item will be included in our definitive proxy statement with respect to our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
  The information required by this item will be included in our definitive proxy statement with respect to our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC, and is incorporated herein by reference. 
  Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
  The information called for by this item will be included in our definitive proxy statement with respect to our 2017 Annual Meeting of Shareholders to be filed with the SEC, and is incorporated herein by reference.  
   
  PART IV 
   
  Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
  (a)        1.  Financial Statements 
  The consolidated financial statements filed as part of this report are listed on the Index to Financial Statements on page F-1. 
  
   85 

Table of Contents  

2.  Financial Statement Schedules 
  All schedules for which provision is made in the applicable accounting regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission are not required under the related instructions or are inapplicable and, therefore, have been omitted.           
  3.  Exhibits 
                 Exhibit Number 
    Description 
      3.1 
    Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the "Registrant"), for the quarter ended June 30, 2015, filed August 4, 2015.) 
      3.2 
    Amended and Restated By-Laws. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed December 21, 2016).  
      4.1 
    Indenture, dated as of October 21, 2011, relating to 1.875% Convertible Senior Notes due October 1, 2016, between the Registrant and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Trustee. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed October 24, 2011.) 
      4.2 
    Form of 1.875% Convertible Senior Note due October 1, 2016. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed October 24, 2011.) 
      10.1 + 
    Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Registration Statement on Form S-8 for the Registrant, filed June 13, 2011.) 
      10.1.1 + 
    Form of option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of options to the Registrant's non-employee directors and named executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed December 16, 2005.) 
      10.1.2 + 
    Form of option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of options to the Registrant's executive officers other than the named executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed December 16, 2005.) 
      10.1.3 + 
    Form of restricted stock award agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of restricted stock awards to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed December 13, 2004.) 
      10.1.5 + 
    Form of option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of time based vesting stock options to the Registrant's non-employee directors and executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, filed April 30, 2009.) 
      10.1.6 + 
    Form of option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of performance based vesting stock options to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended March 31, 2009, filed April 30, 2009.) 
      10.1.7 + 
    Form of restricted stock award agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of restricted stock awards to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan (revised). (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed February 17, 2011.) 
      10.1.8 + 
    Form of option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of performance based vesting stock options to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan (revised). (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2010, filed February 17, 2011.) 
      10.1.9 + 
    Form of option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of time based vesting stock options to the Registrant's non-employee directors under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan (revised). (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2011, filed February 21, 2012.) 

86 

Table of Contents  

10.1.10 + 
    Amendment No. 1 to the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Second Amended and Restated 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2013, filed February 13, 2014.)  
      10.2 + 
    Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Registration Statement on Form S-8 for the Registrant, filed June 16, 2014.) 
      10.2.1 + 
    Form of stock option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of non-qualified stock options to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed June 18, 2014.) 
      10.2.2 + 
    Form of stock option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of incentive stock options to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed June 18, 2014.) 
      10.2.3 + 
    Form of restricted stock award agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of restricted stock awards to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed June 18, 2014.) 
      10.2.4 + 
    Form of stock option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of non-qualified stock options to the Registrant's non-employee directors under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed June 18, 2014.) 
      10.2.5 + 
    Form of stock option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of non-qualified stock options to P. Roy Vagelos, M.D. under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed February 11, 2016.) 
      10.2.6 + 
    Form of stock option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of incentive stock options to P. Roy Vagelos, M.D. under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed February 11, 2016.) 
      10.2.7 + 
    Form of stock option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of non-qualified stock options to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (revised). (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed November 19, 2015.) 
      10.2.8 + 
    Form of stock option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of incentive stock options to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (revised). (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed November 19, 2015.) 
      10.2.9 + 
    Form of restricted stock award agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of restricted stock awards to the Registrant's executive officers under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (revised). (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed November 19, 2015.) 
      10.2.10 + 
    Form of stock option agreement and related notice of grant for use in connection with the grant of non-qualified stock options to the Registrant's non-employee directors under the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (revised). (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed February 11, 2016.) 
      10.3 + 
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2008, between the Registrant and Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed February 26, 2009.) 
      10.4* + 
    Employment Agreement, dated as of December 31, 1998, between the Registrant and P. Roy Vagelos, M.D. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2004, filed March 11, 2005.) 
      10.5 + 
    Offer Letter for Robert E. Landry effective September 9, 2013. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed September 12, 2013.) 
      10.6 + 
    Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Change in Control Severance Plan, amended and restated effective as of November 14, 2008. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2008, filed February 26, 2009.) 
      10.7 + 
    Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. Cash Incentive Bonus Plan. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed June 17, 2015.) 
      10.8* 
    Amended and Restated Collaboration Agreement, dated as of February 23, 2015, by and between Sanofi-Aventis US LLC and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended March 31, 2015, filed May 7, 2015.) 

87 

Table of Contents  

88 

Table of Contents  

89 

Table of Contents  

10.21 
    Master Terms and Conditions for Convertible Note Hedging Transactions, dated as of October 18, 2011, as supplemented by a confirmation dated October 18, 2011, between Citibank, N.A. and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed October 24, 2011.) 
      10.22 
    Master Terms and Conditions for Base Warrants, dated as of October 18, 2011, as supplemented by a confirmation dated October 18, 2011, between Citibank, N.A. and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed October 24, 2011.) 
      10.22.1 
    Amendment, dated as of May 13, 2014, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Citibank, N.A. and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, filed August 5, 2014.) 
      10.22.2 
    Second Amendment, dated as of February 22, 2016, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Citibank, N.A. and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, filed May 5, 2016.) 
      10.22.3 
    Third Amendment, dated as of November 10, 2016, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Citibank, N.A. and the Registrant. 
      10.22.4 
    Termination Agreement, dated as of November 14, 2016, between Citibank, N.A. and the Registrant. 
      10.23 
    Master Terms and Conditions for Convertible Note Hedging Transactions, dated as of October 18, 2011, as supplemented by a confirmation dated October 18, 2011, between Credit Suisse International and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed October 24, 2011.) 
      10.24 
    Master Terms and Conditions for Base Warrants, dated as of October 18, 2011, as supplemented by a confirmation dated October 18, 2011, between Credit Suisse International and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed October 24, 2011.) 
      10.24.1 
    Amendment, dated as of May 14, 2014, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Credit Suisse Capital LLC (as assignee of Credit Suisse International) and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, filed August 5, 2014.) 
      10.24.2 
    Second Amendment, dated as of November 18, 2014, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Credit Suisse Capital LLC (as assignee of Credit Suisse International) and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2014, filed February 12, 2015.) 
      10.24.3 
    Third Amendment, dated as of November 24, 2014, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Credit Suisse Capital LLC (as assignee of Credit Suisse International) and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2014, filed February 12, 2015.) 
      10.24.4 
    Fourth Amendment, dated as of November 15, 2015, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Credit Suisse Capital LLC (as assignee of Credit Suisse International) and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2015, filed February 11, 2016.) 
      10.24.5 
    Termination Agreement, dated as of November 15, 2016, between Credit Suisse Capital LLC (as assignee of Credit Suisse International) and the Registrant.  
      10.25 
    Master Terms and Conditions for Convertible Note Hedging Transactions, dated as of October 18, 2011, as supplemented by a confirmation dated October 18, 2011, between Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed October 24, 2011.) 
      10.26 
    Master Terms and Conditions for Base Warrants, dated as of October 18, 2011, as supplemented by a confirmation dated October 18, 2011, between Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant filed October 24, 2011.) 
      10.26.1 
    Amendment, dated as of May 16, 2014, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended June 30, 2014, filed August 5, 2014.) 
      10.26.2 
    Second Amendment, dated as of August 5, 2015, to the Master Terms and Conditions for Warrants, between Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, filed November 4, 2015.) 
      10.26.3 
    Termination Agreement, dated as of November 21, 2016, between Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc and the Registrant.  

90 

Table of Contents  

10.27* 
    Non-exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement with Genentech, Inc. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-K for the Registrant, for the year ended December 31, 2011, filed February 21, 2012.) 
      10.27.1*                
    Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement by and between Genentech, Inc. and the Registrant, effective May 17, 2013. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, filed August 6, 2013.) 
      10.27.2*                
    Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement by and between Genentech, Inc., the Registrant, Sanofi U.S. Services, Inc., and Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC, effective May 17, 2013. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, filed August 6, 2013.) 
      10.27.3 
    Agreement dated May 17, 2013 between Bayer Pharma AG, Bayer Australia Limited, the Registrant, Regeneron UK Ltd and Genentech Inc. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, filed August 6, 2013.) 
      10.28*                    
    Letter Agreement by and between the Registrant and Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc., dated May 2, 2013. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended June 30, 2013, filed August 6, 2013.) 
      10.29 
    Credit Agreement, dated as of March 19, 2015, by and among the Registrant, as a borrower and guarantor; certain direct and indirect subsidiaries of the Registrant, as the initial subsidiary borrowers; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent; Bank of America, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association, as co-syndication agents; Barclays Bank PLC, Citibank, N.A., Credit Suisse AG, Cayman Islands Branch, Fifth Third Bank and Morgan Stanley MUFG Loan Partners, LLC, as co-documentation agents; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., Bank of America, N.A. and U.S. Bank National Association, as the issuing banks; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as the swingline lender; and the other lenders party thereto from time to time. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed March 23, 2015.) 
      10.29.1 
    Consent and Amendment No. 1 Memorandum, dated as of February 2, 2017, by and among the Registrant, as a borrower and guarantor; Regeneron Healthcare Solutions, Inc., Regeneron Genetics Center LLC, Regeneron International Unlimited Company, Regeneron Ireland Holdings Unlimited Company, Regeneron Ireland Unlimited Company, and Regeneron Capital International B.V., as subsidiary borrowers; JPMorgan Chase Bank, N.A., as administrative agent; and the lenders party thereto.  (Incorporated by reference from the Form 8-K for the Registrant, filed February 7, 2017.) 
      10.30* 
    Immuno-oncology Discovery and Development Agreement, dated July 27, 2015 and entered into effective as of July 1, 2015, by and between the Registrant and Sanofi Biotechnology SAS. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, filed November 4, 2015.) 
      10.31* 
    Immuno-oncology License and Collaboration Agreement, dated July 27, 2015 and entered into effective as of July 1, 2015, by and between the Registrant and Sanofi Biotechnology SAS. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, filed November 4, 2015.) 
      10.32* 
    Collaboration Agreement, dated as of September 29, 2015, by and between Regeneron Ireland and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended September 30, 2015, filed November 4, 2015.) 
      10.33* 
    ANG2 License and Collaboration Agreement, dated as of March 23, 2016, by and between Bayer HealthCare LLC and the Registrant. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended March 31, 2016, filed May 5, 2016.) 
      10.34* 
    Collaboration Agreement, dated as of September 17, 2016, by and between Teva Pharmaceuticals International GmbH and Regeneron Ireland. (Incorporated by reference from the Form 10-Q for the Registrant, for the quarter ended September 30, 2016, filed November 4, 2016.) 
      10.35* 
    Purchase Agreement, dated as of December 30, 2016, by and among BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and BMR-Landmark at Eastview IV LLC and the Registrant. 
      21.1 
    Subsidiaries of the Registrant. 
      23.1 
    Consent of PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm. 
      24.1 
    Power of Attorney (included on the signature page of this Annual Report on Form 10-K). 
      31.1 
    Certification of Principal Executive Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
      31.2 
    Certification of Principal Financial Officer pursuant to Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. 
      32 
    Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350. 

91 

Table of Contents  

101 
    Interactive Data File 
      101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document 
      101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema 
      101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Calculation Linkbase 
      101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Definition Document 
      101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Label Linkbase 
      101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Presentation Linkbase 
      _______ 

* 
      
    Portions of this document have been omitted and filed separately with the Commission pursuant to requests for confidential treatment pursuant to Rule 24b-2. 
      + 
      
    Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

Item 16.  Form 10-K Summary 
  None. 
  
   92 

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

Date: 
    February 9, 2017 
      
    By:  
    /s/ LEONARD S. SCHLEIFER 

Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D. 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

93 

Table of Contents  

POWER OF ATTORNEY  
  KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Leonard S. Schleifer, President and Chief Executive Officer, and Robert E. Landry, Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer, and each of them, his or her true and lawful attorney-in-fact and agent, with the full power of substitution and resubstitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place, and stead, in any and all capacities therewith, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto, and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granting unto each said attorney-in-fact and agent full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done, as fully to all intents and purposes as such person might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorney-in-fact and agent, or either of them, or their or his substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated: 
                       Signature 
      
    Title 
      
    Date 
      /s/   LEONARD S. SCHLEIFER 
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director (Principal Executive Officer) 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D. 

/s/   ROBERT E. LANDRY 
      
    Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Robert E. Landry 

/s/   DOUGLAS S. McCORKLE 
      
    Vice President, Controller, and Assistant Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer) 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Douglas S. McCorkle 

/s/   GEORGE D. YANCOPOULOS 
      
    President, Chief Scientific Officer, and Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      George D. Yancopoulos, M.D., Ph.D. 

/s/   P. ROY VAGELOS 
      
    Chairman of the Board 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      P. Roy Vagelos, M.D. 

/s/   N. ANTHONY COLES 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      N. Anthony Coles, M.D. 

/s/   CHARLES A. BAKER 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Charles A. Baker 

/s/   BONNIE L. BASSLER 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Bonnie L. Bassler, Ph.D. 

/s/   MICHAEL S. BROWN 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Michael S. Brown, M.D. 

/s/   JOSEPH L. GOLDSTEIN 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Joseph L. Goldstein, M.D. 

/s/   CHRISTINE A. POON 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Christine A. Poon 

/s/   ARTHUR F. RYAN 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Arthur F. Ryan 

/s/   GEORGE L. SING 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      George L. Sing 

/s/   MARC TESSIER-LAVIGNE 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Marc Tessier-Lavigne, Ph.D. 

/s/   HUDA Y. ZOGHBI 
      
    Director 
      
    February 9, 2017 
      Huda Y. Zoghbi, M.D.  

94 

Table of Contents  

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  INDEX TO FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

F- 1 

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  To the Board of Directors and Stockholders of 
  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.: 
  In our opinion, the accompanying consolidated balance sheets and the related consolidated statements of operations and comprehensive income, stockholders' equity and cash flows present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its subsidiaries at December 31, 2016 and December 31, 2015, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31, 2016 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America.  Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2016, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).  The Company's management is responsible for these financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting under Item 9A.  Our responsibility is to express opinions on these financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our integrated audits.  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States).  Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.  Our audits of the financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation.  Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk.  Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions.  
  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, effective January 1, 2016, the Company prospectively changed the presentation of excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies in connection with stock-based compensation.  
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements.  Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  Florham Park, New Jersey 
  February 9, 2017 

F- 2 

Table of Contents  

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (In thousands, except share data) 

F- 3 

Table of Contents  

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS AND COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  (In thousands, except per share data) 

F- 4 

Table of Contents  

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
  For the Years Ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014 
  (In thousands) 

F- 5 

Table of Contents  

F- 6 

Table of Contents  

F- 7 

Table of Contents  

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (In thousands) 

F- 8 

Table of Contents  

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

1. Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  Organization and Business 
  Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the "Company" or "Regeneron") is a fully integrated biopharmaceutical company that discovers, invents, develops, manufactures, and commercializes medicines for the treatment of serious medical conditions. The Company has product candidates in development in areas of high unmet medical need, including oncology, rheumatoid arthritis, asthma, atopic dermatitis, pain, and infectious diseases. The Company is a party to collaboration agreements to develop certain of these product candidates (see Note 3). The Company's products that have received marketing approval consist of the following: 
             
    EYLEA        (aflibercept) Injection  ,   known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap-Eye, which is available in the United States, European Union ("EU"), Japan, and certain other countries outside the United States for the treatment of neovascular age-related macular degeneration ("wet AMD"), diabetic macular edema ("DME"), macular edema following retinal vein occlusion ("RVO"), which includes macular edema following central retinal vein occlusion ("CRVO") and macular edema following branch retinal vein occlusion ("BRVO"). EYLEA is also available in the EU, Japan, and certain other countries outside the United States for the treatment of myopic choroidal neovascularization (mCNV) and in the United States for the treatment of diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME. The Company is collaborating with Bayer on the development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States. 
                
    Praluent        (alirocumab) Injection  ,   which is available in the United States where it is indicated as an adjunct to diet and maximally tolerated statin therapy for the treatment of adults with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia or clinical atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease ("ASCVD"), who require additional lowering of low-density lipoprotein ("LDL") cholesterol. Praluent is also available in certain countries in Europe for the treatment of adult patients with primary hypercholesterolemia (heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia ("HeFH") and non-familial) or mixed dyslipidemia as an adjunct to diet: (a) in combination with a statin, or statin with other lipid-lowering therapies in patients unable to reach their LDL-cholesterol goals with the maximally-tolerated dose of a statin, or (b) alone or in combination with other lipid-lowering therapies for patients who are statin intolerant, or for whom a statin is contraindicated. In July 2016, the Japanese Ministry of Health, Labour and Welfare ("MHLW") granted marketing and manufacturing authorization for Praluent for the treatment of uncontrolled LDL cholesterol, in certain adult patients with hypercholesterolemia at high cardiovascular risk. The effect of Praluent on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality has not been determined. The Company is collaborating with Sanofi on the global development and commercialization of Praluent. See Note 17 for information regarding the patent infringement proceedings relating to Praluent, which may impact Praluent's commercial availability in the United States and other jurisdictions.  
                
    ARCALYST        (rilonacept) Injection for Subcutaneous Use  , which is available in the United States for the treatment of Cryopyrin-Associated Periodic Syndromes ("CAPS"), including Familial Cold Auto-inflammatory Syndrome ("FCAS") and Muckle-Wells Syndrome ("MWS"), in adults and children 12 and older.  
                
    Kevzara   TM    (sarilumab) Solution for Subcutaneous Injection  . In January 2017, Health Canada approved Kevraza for the treatment of adult patients with moderately to severely active rheumatoid arthritis who have an inadequate response to or intolerance to one or more biologic or non-biologic disease modifying anti-rheumatic drugs ("DMARDs"). This is the first approval of Kevzara worldwide. 
                
    ZALTRAP        (ziv-aflibercept) Injection for Intravenous Infusion  , known in the scientific literature as VEGF Trap, which is available in the United States, EU, and certain other countries for treatment, in combination with 5-fluorouracil, leucovorin, irinotecan ("FOLFIRI"), of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer ("mCRC") that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen. Pursuant to a 2015 amended and restated ZALTRAP agreement ("Amended ZALTRAP Agreement"), Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP, and Sanofi pays the Company a percentage of aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP. 
     The Company operates in one business segment, which includes all activities related to the discovery, development, and commercialization of pharmaceutical products for the treatment of serious medical conditions. The Company's business is subject to certain risks including, but not limited to, uncertainties relating to conducting pharmaceutical research, product development, obtaining regulatory approvals, market acceptance, competition, and obtaining and enforcing patents. 
  
   F- 9 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Basis of Presentation  
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Regeneron and its wholly-owned subsidiaries. Intercompany balances and transactions are eliminated in consolidation. Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform with the current period's presentation.  
  Use of Estimates 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the amounts reported in the financial statements and accompanying notes. Actual results could differ from those estimates. Estimates which could have a significant impact on the Company's financial statements include provisions related to product sales, such as rebates, chargebacks, and distribution-related fees; periods over which payments, including non-refundable up-front, license, and milestone payments, are recognized as revenue in connection with collaboration and other agreements; periods over which certain clinical trial costs are recognized; fair value of stock options; inventory that may expire prior to expected sale or has a cost basis in excess of its estimated realizable value; capitalization of inventory costs associated with the Company's products prior to regulatory approval; provisions for loss contingencies; deferred tax asset valuation allowances; and the assessment of uncertain tax positions.  
  With respect to the Company's collaborations with Sanofi and Bayer: 
             
    Included in Sanofi collaboration revenue is the Company's share of profits or losses from commercialization of antibodies, which is provided by Sanofi, and includes an estimate of the Company's share of profits or losses for the most recent fiscal quarter. 
                
    Included in Bayer collaboration revenue is the Company's share of profits or losses from commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States, which is provided by Bayer, and includes an estimate of the Company's share of profits or losses for the most recent fiscal quarter. 
                
    Included in research and development expenses is the Company's share of development expenses incurred by Bayer and Sanofi, including the Company's share of Bayer and Sanofi estimated development expenses for the most recent fiscal quarter. 
     These estimates for the most recent period are adjusted on a prospective basis, if necessary, in the subsequent period to reflect actual amounts.  
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  The Company considers all highly liquid debt instruments with a maturity of three months or less when purchased to be cash equivalents. The carrying amount reported in the Consolidated Balance Sheet for cash and cash equivalents approximates its fair value. 
  Marketable Securities 
  The Company has an investment policy that includes guidelines on acceptable investment securities, minimum credit quality, maturity parameters, and concentration and diversification. The Company invests its excess cash primarily in marketable securities issued by investment grade institutions. The Company considers its marketable securities to be "available-for-sale," as defined by authoritative guidance issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB"). These assets are carried at fair value and the unrealized gains and losses are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Realized gains and losses on marketable securities are included as a component of other income (expense), net. The Company reviews its portfolio of marketable securities, using both quantitative and qualitative factors, to determine if declines in fair value below cost are other-than-temporary. If a decline in the fair value of a marketable security in the Company's investment portfolio is deemed to be other-than-temporary, the Company writes down the cost basis of the security to its current fair value and recognizes a loss as a charge against income.  
  Accounts Receivable - Trade 
  The Company's trade accounts receivable arise from product sales and represent amounts due from its distributors and specialty pharmacies (collectively, the Company's "customers"), which are all located in the United States. The Company monitors the financial performance and credit worthiness of its large customers so that it can properly assess and respond to changes in their credit profile. The Company provides reserves against trade receivables for estimated losses, if any, that may result from a customer's inability to pay. Amounts determined to be uncollectible are written-off against the reserve.  
  
   F- 10 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Inventories 
  Inventories are stated at the lower of cost or estimated realizable value. The Company determines the cost of inventory using the first-in, first-out, or FIFO, method.  
  The Company capitalizes inventory costs associated with the Company's products prior to regulatory approval when, based on management's judgment, future commercialization is considered probable and the future economic benefit is expected to be realized; otherwise, such costs are expensed as research and development. The determination to capitalize inventory costs is based on various factors, including status and expectations of the regulatory approval process, any known safety or efficacy concerns, potential labeling restrictions, and any other impediments to obtaining regulatory approval.  
  The Company periodically analyzes its inventory levels to identify inventory that may expire prior to expected sale or has a cost basis in excess of its estimated realizable value, and writes-down such inventories as appropriate. In addition, the Company's products are subject to strict quality control and monitoring which the Company performs throughout the manufacturing process. If certain batches or units of product no longer meet quality specifications or become obsolete due to expiration, the Company records a charge to cost of goods sold to write down such unmarketable inventory to its estimated realizable value. 
  Property, Plant, and Equipment 
  Property, plant, and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is provided on a straight-line basis over the estimated useful lives of the assets. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful lives of the assets or the lease term. Costs of construction of certain long-lived assets include capitalized interest, which is amortized over the estimated useful life of the related asset. Expenditures for maintenance and repairs which do not materially extend the useful lives of the assets are charged to expense as incurred. The cost and accumulated depreciation or amortization of assets retired or sold are removed from the respective accounts, and any gain or loss is recognized in operations. The estimated useful lives of property, plant, and equipment are as follows: 
                   Building and improvements 
      
    10-40 years 
      Laboratory and other equipment 
      
    3-10 years 
      Furniture and fixtures 
      
    5 years 

The Company periodically assesses the recoverability of long-lived assets, such as property, plant, and equipment, and evaluates such assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable.  
  Revenue Recognition 
  a. Product Revenue 
  Product revenue consists of U.S. sales of EYLEA and ARCALYST. Revenue from product sales is recognized when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title to product and associated risk of loss have passed to the customer, the price is fixed or determinable, collection from the customer is reasonably assured, the Company has no further performance obligations, and returns can be reasonably estimated. The Company's written contracts with its customers stipulate product is shipped freight on board destination (FOB destination). The Company records revenue from product sales upon delivery to its customers.   
  The Company sells EYLEA       in the United States to several distributors and specialty pharmacies. The Company sells ARCALYST in the United States to two specialty pharmacies. Under these distribution models, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally take physical delivery of product. For EYLEA, the distributors and specialty pharmacies generally sell the product directly to healthcare providers, whereas for ARCALYST, the specialty pharmacies sell the product directly to patients.       
  Revenue from product sales is recorded net of applicable provisions for rebates and chargebacks under governmental and other programs, distribution-related fees, and other sales-related deductions. Calculating these provisions involves estimates and judgments. The Company reviews its estimates of rebates, chargebacks, and other applicable provisions each period and records any necessary adjustments in the current period's net product sales.   
  Government Rebates and Chargebacks:   The Company estimates reductions to product sales for Medicaid and Veterans' Administration ("VA") programs, and for certain other qualifying federal and state government programs. Based upon the  
  
   F- 11 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Company's contracts with government agencies, statutorily-defined discounts applicable to government-funded programs,  historical experience, and estimated payer mix, the Company estimates and records an allowance for rebates and chargebacks. The Company's liability for Medicaid rebates consists of estimates for claims that a state will make for a current quarter, claims for prior quarters that have been estimated for which an invoice has not been received, and invoices received for claims from prior quarters that have not been paid. The Company's reserves related to discounted pricing to VA, Public Health Services ("PHS"), and other institutions (collectively "qualified healthcare providers") represent the Company's estimated obligations resulting from contractual commitments to sell products to qualified healthcare providers at prices lower than the list prices the Company charges to its customers (i.e., distributors and specialty pharmacies). The Company's customers charge the Company for the difference between what they pay for the products and the ultimate selling price to the qualified healthcare providers. The Company's reserve for this discounted pricing is based on expected sales to qualified healthcare providers and the chargebacks that customers have already claimed.   
  Distribution-Related Fees:   The Company has written contracts with its customers that include terms for distribution-related fees. The Company estimates and records distribution and related fees due to its customers based on gross sales.   
  Prompt Pay Discounts:   No prompt pay discounts are currently offered to the Company's customers on sales of EYLEA. In connection with sales of ARCALYST, the Company offers discounts to its customers for prompt payments. The Company estimates these discounts based on customer terms and historical experience, and expects that its customers will always take advantage of this discount. Therefore, the Company accrues   100%   of the prompt pay discount that is based on the gross amount of each ARCALYST       invoice, at the time of sale. 
  Product Returns:   Consistent with industry practice, the Company offers its customers a limited right to return product purchased directly from the Company, which is principally based upon the product's expiration date. The Company will accept returns for three months prior to and up to six months after the product expiration date. Product returned is generally not resalable given the nature of the Company's products and method of administration. The Company develops estimates for product returns based upon historical experience, inventory levels in the distribution channel, shelf life of the product, and other relevant factors. The Company monitors product supply levels in the distribution channel, as well as sales by its customers of EYLEA to healthcare providers and ARCALYST to patients using product-specific data provided by its customers. If necessary, the Company's estimates of product returns may be adjusted in the future based on actual returns experience, known or expected changes in the marketplace, or other factors.   
  b. Collaboration Revenue 
  The Company earns collaboration revenue in connection with collaboration agreements to develop and commercialize product candidates and utilize the Company's technology platforms. These arrangements may require the Company to deliver various rights, services, and/or goods across the entire life cycle of a product or product candidate. The terms of these agreements typically include that consideration be provided to the Company in the form of non-refundable up-front payments, milestone payments, payments for development and commercialization activities, and sharing of profits or losses arising from the commercialization of products.  
  In connection with non-refundable up-front payments, the Company's performance period estimates are principally based on projections of the scope, progress, and results of its research and development activities. Due to the variability in the scope of activities and length of time necessary to develop a drug product, changes to development plans as programs progress, and uncertainty in the ultimate requirements to obtain regulatory approval for commercialization, revisions to performance period estimates are likely to occur periodically, and could result in material changes to the amount of revenue recognized each year in the future. In addition, estimated performance periods may change if development programs encounter delays, or the Company and its collaborators decide to expand or contract the clinical plans for a drug candidate in various disease indications.  
  In arrangements involving multiple deliverables, each required deliverable is evaluated to determine whether it qualifies as a separate unit of accounting. This determination is generally based on whether the deliverables in the arrangement meet certain criteria, including whether the delivered item or items has value to the collaborator on a standalone basis. The arrangement's consideration that is fixed and determinable is allocated to each separate unit of accounting based on the relative selling price of each deliverable. If multiple collaboration activities or rights do not require separation, they are combined into a single unit of accounting and recognized over the performance period, which is the period over which the Company is obligated to deliver goods or services. The Company estimates its performance period based on the specific terms of each agreement, and adjusts the performance periods, if appropriate, based on the applicable facts and circumstances.  
  
   F- 12 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Payments which are based on achieving a specific substantive performance milestone, involving a degree of risk, are recognized as revenue when the milestone is achieved and the related payment is due and non-refundable, provided there is no future service obligation associated with that milestone. Substantive performance milestones typically consist of significant achievements in the development life-cycle of the related product candidate, such as completion of clinical trials, filing for approval with regulatory agencies, and receipt of approvals by regulatory agencies. In determining whether a payment is deemed to be a substantive performance milestone, the Company takes into consideration (i) the enhancement in value to the related development product candidate, (ii) the Company's performance and the relative level of effort required to achieve the milestone, (iii) whether the milestone relates solely to past performance, and (iv) whether the milestone payment is considered reasonable relative to all of the deliverables and payment terms. Payments for achieving milestones which are not considered substantive are deferred and recognized over the related performance period.   
  The Company enters into collaboration agreements that include varying arrangements regarding which parties perform and bear the costs of research and development activities. The Company may     share the costs of research and development activities with a collaborator, or the Company may be reimbursed for all or a significant portion of the costs of the Company's research and development activities. The Company records its internal and third-party development costs associated with these collaborations as research and development expenses. When the Company is entitled to reimbursement of all or a portion of the research and development expenses that it incurs under a collaboration, the Company records those reimbursable amounts as collaboration revenue proportionately as the Company recognizes its expenses. If the collaboration is a cost-sharing arrangement in which both the Company and its collaborator perform development work and share costs, the Company also recognizes, as research and development expense in the period when its collaborator incurs development expenses, the portion of the collaborator's development expenses that the Company is obligated to reimburse. The Company may also be obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply commercial bulk product to its collaborators. In such cases, the Company is reimbursed for its manufacturing costs as commercial product is shipped to its collaborators; however, recognition of such cost reimbursements as collaboration revenue is deferred until the product is sold by the Company's collaborators to third-party customers, at which time the Company's risk of inventory loss no longer exists. In addition, at that time, the related manufacturing costs for the sold product, which had been capitalized into inventory, are recognized by the Company. 
  Under the Company's collaboration agreements, product sales and cost of sales for products which are currently approved are recorded by the Company's collaborators. The Company shares in any profits or losses arising from the commercialization of such products. The Company records its share of the profits or losses from commercialization of such products, representing net product sales less cost of goods sold and shared commercialization and other expenses, as collaboration revenue.   
  Research and Development Expenses 
  Research and development expenses include costs directly attributable to the conduct of research and development programs, including the cost of salaries, payroll taxes, employee benefits, materials, supplies, depreciation on and maintenance of research equipment, costs related to research collaboration and licensing agreements, the cost of services provided by outside contractors, including services related to the Company's clinical trials, clinical trial expenses, the full cost of manufacturing drug for use in research, preclinical development, and clinical trials, amounts that the Company is obligated to reimburse to collaborators for research and development expenses that they incur, and the allocable portions of facility costs, such as rent, utilities, insurance, repairs and maintenance, depreciation, and general support services. Costs associated with research and development are expensed.   
  Clinical trial costs are a significant component of research and development expenses and include costs associated with third-party contractors. The Company outsources a substantial portion of its clinical trial activities, utilizing external entities such as contract research organizations ("CROs"), independent clinical investigators, and other third-party service providers to assist the Company with the execution of its clinical studies. For each clinical trial that the Company conducts, certain clinical trial costs are expensed immediately, while others are expensed over time based on the expected total number of patients in the trial, the rate at which patients enter the trial, and/or the period over which clinical investigators or CROs are expected to provide services.  
  Clinical activities which relate principally to clinical sites and other administrative functions to manage the Company's clinical trials are performed primarily by CROs. CROs typically perform most of the start-up activities for the Company's trials, including document preparation, site identification, screening and preparation, pre-study visits, training, and program management. These start-up costs usually occur within a few months after the contract has been executed and are event driven in nature. The remaining activities and related costs, such as patient monitoring and administration, generally occur ratably throughout the life of the individual contract or study. In the event of early termination of a clinical trial, the Company accrues and recognizes expenses in an amount based on its estimate of the remaining non-cancelable obligations associated with the winding down of the clinical trial and/or penalties.   
  
   F- 13 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

For clinical study sites, where payments are made periodically on a per-patient basis to the institutions performing the clinical study, the Company accrues expenses on an estimated cost-per-patient basis, based on subject enrollment and activity in each quarter. The amount of clinical study expense recognized in a quarter may vary from period to period based on the duration and progress of the study, the activities to be performed by the sites each quarter, the required level of patient enrollment, the rate at which patients actually enroll in and drop-out of the clinical study, and the number of sites involved in the study. Clinical trials that bear the greatest risk of change in estimates are typically those that have a significant number of sites, require a large number of patients, have complex patient screening requirements, and span multiple years. During the course of a trial, the Company adjusts its rate of clinical expense recognition if actual results differ from the Company's estimates. The Company's estimates and assumptions for clinical expense recognition could differ significantly from its actual results, which could cause material increases or decreases in research and development expenses in future periods when the actual results become known.  
  Stock-based Compensation   
  The Company recognizes stock-based compensation expense for grants of stock option awards and restricted stock under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plans to employees and non-employee members of the Company's board of directors based on the grant-date fair value of those awards. The grant-date fair value of an award is generally recognized as compensation expense over the award's requisite service period.  
  The Company uses the Black-Scholes model to compute the estimated fair value of stock option awards. Using this model, fair value is calculated based on assumptions with respect to (i) expected volatility of the Company's Common Stock price, (ii) the periods of time over which employees and members of the board of directors are expected to hold their options prior to exercise (expected lives), (iii) expected dividend yield on the Common Stock, and (iv) risk-free interest rates. Stock-based compensation expense also includes an estimate, which is made at the time of grant, of the number of awards that are expected to be forfeited. This estimate is revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates.   
  Income Taxes 
  The Company recognizes deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected future tax consequences of events that have been included in the financial statements or tax returns. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are determined on the basis of the difference between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their respective financial reporting amounts ("temporary differences") at enacted tax rates in effect for the years in which the differences are expected to reverse. A valuation allowance is established for deferred tax assets for which it is more likely than not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized.   
  Uncertain tax positions, for which management's assessment is that there is more than a 50% probability of sustaining the position upon challenge by a taxing authority based upon its technical merits, are subjected to certain recognition and measurement criteria. The Company re-evaluates uncertain tax positions and consider various factors, including, but not limited to, changes in tax law, the measurement of tax positions taken or expected to be taken in tax returns, and changes in facts or circumstances related to a tax position. The Company adjusts the level of the liability to reflect any subsequent changes in the relevant facts and circumstances surrounding the uncertain positions. The Company recognizes interest and penalties related to income tax matters in income tax expense. 
  Per Share Data 
  Basic net income per share is computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock outstanding. Net income per share is presented on a combined basis, inclusive of Common Stock and Class A Stock outstanding, as each class of stock has equivalent economic rights. Basic net income per share excludes restricted stock awards until vested. Diluted net income per share includes the potential dilutive effect of common stock equivalents as if such securities were converted or exercised during the period, when the effect is dilutive. Common stock equivalents include: (i) outstanding stock options and restricted stock awards under the Company's Long-Term Incentive Plans, which are included under the "treasury stock method" when dilutive, (ii) Common Stock to be issued upon the assumed conversion of the Company's convertible senior notes, which are included under the "if-converted method" when dilutive, and (iii) Common Stock to be issued upon the exercise of outstanding warrants, which are included under the "treasury stock method" when dilutive.  
  
   F- 14 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Concentration of Credit Risk 
  Financial instruments which potentially expose the Company to concentrations of credit risk consist of cash, cash equivalents, certain financial instruments, and accounts receivable. A large portion of the Company's cash is held by a few major financial institutions. In accordance with the Company's policies, the Company mandates asset diversification and monitors exposure with its counterparties.  
  Concentrations of credit risk with respect to accounts receivable are significant. Accounts receivable from product sales of EYLEA and ARCALYST are due from several distributors and specialty pharmacies, who are the Company's customers. As of   December 31, 2016  , three individual customers accounted for   99%   of the Company's net trade accounts receivable balances. As of December 31, 2015, two individual customers accounted for   94%   of the Company's net trade accounts receivable balances.The Company has contractual payment terms with each of its customers, and the Company monitors its customers' financial performance and credit worthiness so that it can properly assess and respond to any changes in their credit profile. In addition, the Company may insure a portion of its accounts receivables within its overall risk management practices. As of December 31, 2016 and 2015, there were   no   reserves against trade accounts receivable. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, the Company did   no  t recognize any charges for write-offs of trade accounts receivable.  
  Recently Issued Accounting Standards  
  In May 2014, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers  , which will replace existing revenue recognition guidance. The new standard requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. To achieve that core principle, an entity must identify the contract(s) with a customer, identify the performance obligations in the contract, determine the transaction price, allocate the transaction price to the performance obligations in the contract, and recognize revenue when (or as) the entity satisfies the performance obligation. In July 2015, the FASB decided to delay the effective date of the new standard by one year; as a result, the new standard will be effective for annual and interim reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017. Early adoption will be permitted, but no earlier than 2017 for calendar year-end entities. The standard allows for two transition methods - retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the standard recognized at the date of initial adoption. The Company has not yet determined its method of transition. The Company does not expect the new standard to have a material impact on the recognition of revenue from product sales. However, the Company continues to evaluate the impact that this guidance will have on its financial statements in connection with collaboration and license agreements. 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-01,   Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities  . The amendments require equity investments (except those accounted for under the equity method of accounting or those that result in consolidation of the investee) to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in net income. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017. The implementation of the amendments is expected to increase the volatility of an entity's net income; however, the Company is not currently able to estimate the impact of adopting these amendments, as the significance of the impact will depend on the Company's equity investment balance upon adoption. 
  In February 2016, the FASB issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-02,   Leases  . The new standard requires a lessee to recognize in its balance sheet (for both finance and operating leases) a liability to make lease payments and a right-of-use asset representing its right to use the underlying asset for the lease term. The amendments are effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2018. Early adoption is permitted. The Company is evaluating the impact that this guidance will have on the Company's financial statements. 
  In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ("FASB") issued Accounting Standards Update 2016-09 ("ASU 2016-09"),   Compensation - Stock Compensation, Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting  , which the Company elected to early adopt during the second quarter of 2016. ASU 2016-09 requires an entity to recognize all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies in connection with stock-based compensation as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement (previously, excess tax benefits were recognized in additional paid-in capital). This aspect of ASU 2016-09 was adopted prospectively, and accordingly, the Company recorded excess tax benefits of   $144.8 million   within income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2016. Included within income tax expense for the year ended December 31, 2016 is   $15.6 million   of excess tax benefits, which was previously recorded to additional paid-in capital during the first quarter of 2016. The amendments also require recognition of excess tax benefits regardless of whether the benefit reduces taxes payable in the current period. Furthermore, the amendments require that excess tax benefits be classified as an operating activity in the statement of cash flows  
  
   F- 15 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

(such amounts were previously included as a financing activity in the statement of cash flows); the Company also adopted this provision of ASU 2016-09 prospectively. 
   
  2. Product Sales  
  Net product sales consist of U.S. sales of EYLEA and ARCALYST. The Company received marketing approval from the FDA for EYLEA for the treatment of wet AMD in 2011, macular edema following CRVO in 2012, DME and macular edema following BRVO in 2014, and diabetic retinopathy in patients with DME in 2015. EYLEA net product sales in the United States totaled   $3,323.1 million  ,   $2,676.0 million  , and   $1,736.4 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2016  , 2015, and 2014, respectively. ARCALYST net product sales totaled   $15.3 million  ,   $13.5 million  , and   $14.4 million   for the years ended   December 31, 2016  , 2015, and 2014, respectively.  
  The Company's product sales to certain customers that accounted for more than   10%   of total gross product revenue for each of the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014. Sales to each of these customers as a percentage of the Company's total gross product revenue are as follows: 

** For the periods ending December 31, 2015 and 2014, sales to Curascript SD Specialty Distribution represented less than   10%   of total gross product revenue.  
  Revenue from product sales is recorded net of applicable provisions for rebates and chargebacks, distribution-related fees, and other sales-related deductions. The following table summarizes the provisions, and credits/payments, for these sales-related deductions for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014. 

3. Collaboration Agreements 
  The Company has entered into various agreements related to its activities to research, develop, manufacture, and commercialize product candidates and utilize its technology platforms. Significant agreements of this kind are described below.   
  
   F- 16 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

a. Sanofi  
  Sanofi owned a total of   23,418,396   shares of the Company's Common Stock as of December 31, 2016, a portion of which was purchased in connection with the companies' ZALTRAP       and antibody collaborations described below.  See Note 13 for a description of the investor agreement between Sanofi and the Company. 
  The collaboration revenue the Company earned from Sanofi is detailed below:  

Other selected financial information in connection with the Company's collaboration agreements with Sanofi is as follows:  

F- 17 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Antibodies 
  In November 2007, the Company entered into a global, strategic collaboration with Sanofi to discover, develop, and commercialize fully human monoclonal antibodies (the "Antibody Collaboration")  .   The Antibody Collaboration is governed by the companies' Discovery and Preclinical Development Agreement ("Antibody Discovery Agreement") and a License and Collaboration Agreement (each as amended). In connection with the execution of the Antibody Discovery Agreement in 2007, the Company received a non-refundable up-front payment of   $85.0 million   from Sanofi. In addition, under the Antibody Discovery Agreement, Sanofi is funding the Company's research to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets. In November 2009, the Company and Sanofi amended these collaboration agreements to expand and extend the Antibody Collaboration. Pursuant to the Antibody Discovery Agreement, as amended, Sanofi agreed to fund up to   $160.0 million   per year of the Company's research activities in 2010 through 2017. However, in July 2015, in connection with the Company s new immuno-oncology collaboration with Sanofi, as described below, the Company s Antibody Discovery Agreement and License and Collaboration Agreement with Sanofi were each amended. In connection with these amendments, Sanofi's funding of the Company s antibody discovery activities under the existing Antibody Collaboration was reduced to up to   $145.0 million   in 2015, and up to   $130.0 million   in both 2016 and 2017, or an aggregate reduction of   $75.0 million   over this   three  -year period. In addition, the Company's discovery activities to identify and validate potential drug discovery targets in the field of immuno-oncology and develop fully human monoclonal antibodies against these targets will be funded by Sanofi under the terms of the companies  new immuno-oncology collaboration. Sanofi has the right to extend antibody development and preclinical activities relating to selected programs for up to an additional   three   years after 2017. Sanofi must identify any programs to be extended by June 30, 2017, and the Company and Sanofi must then agree on a plan and budget for the extended activities. During the extended period, the Company will use commercially reasonable efforts to develop such antibodies and conduct preclinical activities through IND preparation. After 2017, funding from Sanofi under the Antibody Discovery Agreement will cease to continue, except with regard to the programs for which Sanofi has exercised its extension right. 
   For each drug candidate identified under the Antibody Discovery Agreement (including drug candidates developed during the extended period of up to an additional   three   years described above), Sanofi has the option to license rights to the candidate under the License and Collaboration Agreement. If it elects to do so, Sanofi will co-develop the drug candidate with the Company through product approval. Under certain defined circumstances, upon exercising its option to license rights to particular candidates, Sanofi must make a   $10.0 million   substantive milestone payment to the Company. If Sanofi does not exercise its option to license rights to a particular drug candidate under the License and Collaboration Agreement, or if Sanofi elects not to continue to co-develop a product candidate, the Company retains the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such drug candidate and Sanofi will receive a royalty on sales, if any.  
  Under the License and Collaboration Agreement, agreed-upon worldwide development expenses incurred by both companies during the term of the agreement are funded by Sanofi, except that following receipt of the first positive Phase 3 trial results for a co-developed drug candidate, subsequent Phase 3 trial-related costs for that drug candidate ("Shared Phase 3 Trial Costs") are shared   80%   by Sanofi and   20%   by Regeneron. Consequently, the Company recognized as research and development expense   $108.6 million  ,   $92.6 million  , and   $109.7 million   in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, of antibody development expenses that the Company was obligated to reimburse to Sanofi related to Praluent, sarilumab, and, commencing in the first quarter of 2016, dupilumab. If the Antibody Collaboration becomes profitable, Regeneron will be obligated to reimburse Sanofi for   50%   of worldwide development expenses that were fully funded by Sanofi and   30%   of Shared Phase 3 Trial Costs, in accordance with a defined formula based on the amounts of these expenses and the Company's share of collaboration profits from commercialization of collaboration products. However, the Company is not required to apply more than   10%   of its share of the profits from the Antibody Collaboration in any calendar quarter to reimburse Sanofi for these development costs. The Company's contingent reimbursement obligation to Sanofi under the Antibody Collaboration was approximately   $2,245 million   as of December 31, 2016.    
  Sanofi will lead commercialization activities for products developed under the License and Collaboration Agreement, subject to the Company's right to co-promote such products. The parties equally share profits and losses from sales within the United States. The parties share profits outside the United States on a sliding scale based on sales starting at   65%   (Sanofi)/  35%   (Regeneron) and ending at   55%   (Sanofi)/  45%   (Regeneron), and losses outside the United States at   55%   (Sanofi)/  45%   (Regeneron). In addition to profit sharing, the Company is entitled to receive up to   $250.0 million   in sales milestone payments, with milestone payments commencing only if and after aggregate annual sales outside the United States exceed   $1.0 billion   on a rolling   twelve  -month basis.   
  Regeneron is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the Antibody Collaboration until commercial supplies of that drug candidate are being manufactured. In connection with the November 2009 amendment of the collaboration's Antibody Discovery Agreement, Sanofi funded   $30.0 million   of agreed-upon  
  
   F- 18 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

costs the Company incurred to expand its manufacturing capacity at its Rensselaer, New York facilities. Additionally, during 2014, Sanofi agreed to fund up to   $17.5 million   of agreed-upon costs incurred by the Company in connection with expanding the Company's manufacturing capacity at its Rensselaer, New York facility. Payments received from Sanofi to fund agreed-upon expansions of the Company's manufacturing capacity are initially recorded as deferred revenue by the Company and are being recognized as collaboration revenue over the related performance period. 
  With respect to each antibody product which enters development under the License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi or the Company may, by giving   twelve   months' notice, opt-out of further development and/or commercialization of the product, in which event the other party retains exclusive rights to continue the development and/or commercialization of the product. The Company may also opt-out of the further development of an antibody product if it gives notice to Sanofi within   thirty   days of the date that Sanofi enters joint development of such antibody product under the License and Collaboration Agreement. Each of the Antibody Discovery Agreement and the License and Collaboration Agreement contains other termination provisions, including for material breach by the other party. Prior to December 31, 2017, Sanofi has the right to terminate the amended Antibody Discovery Agreement without cause with at least   three   months advance written notice; however, except under defined circumstances, Sanofi would be obligated to immediately pay to the Company the full amount of unpaid research funding during the remaining term of the research agreement through December 31, 2017. Upon termination of the collaboration in its entirety, the Company's obligation to reimburse Sanofi for development costs out of any future profits from collaboration products will terminate. In the event of termination of the amended Antibody Discovery Agreement, the Company retains exclusive rights to continue the development and/or commercialization of such product(s). Upon expiration of the amended Antibody Discovery Agreement, Sanofi has an option to license the Company's   VelocImmune        technology for an annual license fee plus royalties on any future sales of products developed using   VelocImmune   technology. 
  In connection with the Antibody Collaboration, in August 2008, the Company entered into a separate agreement with Sanofi, which extended through December 2012, to use Regeneron's proprietary   VelociGene        technology platform to supply Sanofi with genetically modified mammalian models of gene function and disease (the "  VelociGene   Agreement")  .   The   VelociGene   Agreement provided for minimum annual order quantities for the term of the agreement, for which the Company received payments totaling   $21.5 million  . Payments received were initially recorded as deferred revenue by the Company and are being recognized as collaboration revenue over the related performance period. 
  In May 2013, the Company acquired from Sanofi full exclusive rights to   two   families of novel antibodies invented at Regeneron and previously included in the Company's Antibody Collaboration with Sanofi. The Company acquired full rights to antibodies targeting the platelet derived growth factor (PDGF) family of receptors and ligands in ophthalmology and all other indications and to antibodies targeting the angiopoietin-2 (Ang2) receptor and ligand in ophthalmology. With respect to PDGF antibodies, the Company made   two     $5.0 million   development milestone payments to Sanofi in 2014 and a   $10.0 million   development milestone payment to Sanofi in 2015, each of which was recorded as research and development expense.  
  In July 2014, in connection with the Company's Antibody Collaboration with Sanofi, the Company purchased an FDA priority review voucher from a third party for   $67.5 million  . The Company and Sanofi equally shared the priority review voucher's purchase price, and the Company's share of the cost, or   $33.8 million  , was recorded as a research and development expense during 2014. The Company subsequently transferred the voucher to Sanofi, which used the priority review voucher in connection with the Biologics License Application submission to the FDA for Praluent.  
  "Reimbursement of Regeneron commercialization-related expenses" in the table above represents reimbursement of internal and external costs in connection with preparing to commercialize or commercializing, as applicable, Praluent, sarilumab, and effective in the first quarter of 2016, dupilumab.  
  In 2014, the Company and Sanofi began sharing commercialization expenses related to Praluent and sarilumab in accordance with the companies  License and Collaboration Agreement. In addition, effective in the first quarter of 2016, the Company and Sanofi also began sharing pre-launch commercialization expenses related to dupilumab. As such, during the same periods that the Company recorded reimbursements from Sanofi related to the Company's commercialization expenses, the Company also recorded its share of losses in connection with the companies preparing to commercialize or commercializing, as applicable, Praluent, sarilumab, and dupilumab within Sanofi collaboration revenue.  
  
   F- 19 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Immuno-Oncology  
  In July 2015, the Company and Sanofi entered into a collaboration to discover, develop, and commercialize antibody-based cancer treatments in the field of immuno-oncology (the "IO Collaboration"). The IO Collaboration is governed by an Immuno-oncology Discovery and Development Agreement ("IO Discovery Agreement"), and an Immuno-oncology License and Collaboration Agreement ("IO License and Collaboration Agreement"). In connection with the IO Discovery Agreement, Sanofi made a   $265.0 million   non-refundable up-front payment to the Company. Pursuant to the IO Discovery Agreement, the Company will spend up to   $1,090.0 million   ("IO Discovery Budget") to identify and validate potential immuno-oncology targets and develop therapeutic antibodies against such targets through clinical proof-of-concept. Sanofi will reimburse the Company for up to   $825.0 million   ("IO Discovery Funding") of these costs, subject to certain annual limits (including a limit of   $150.0 million   in 2016), which consists of (i)   $750.0 million   in new funding and (ii)   $75.0 million   of funding that would have otherwise been available to Regeneron under the existing Antibody Discovery Agreement, as described above. The term of the IO Discovery Agreement will continue through the later of   five   years from the effective date of the IO Collaboration or the date the IO Discovery Budget is exhausted, subject to Sanofi s option to extend it for up to an additional   three   years for the continued development (and funding) of selected ongoing programs. Pursuant to the IO Discovery Agreement, the Company will be primarily responsible for the design and conduct of all research activities, including target identification and validation, antibody development, preclinical activities, toxicology studies, manufacture of preclinical and clinical supplies, filing of Investigational New Drug ("IND") Applications, and clinical development through proof-of-concept. The Company will reimburse Sanofi for half of the development costs they funded that are attributable to clinical development of antibody product candidates under the IO Discovery Agreement from Regeneron's share of future profits, if any, from commercialized IO Collaboration products to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose. However, the Company is not required to apply more than   10%   of its share of the profits from IO Collaboration products in any calendar quarter towards reimbursing Sanofi for these development costs. The Company's contingent reimbursement obligation to Sanofi under the IO Collaboration was approximately   $3 million   as of December 31, 2016. With regard to product candidates for which proof-of-concept is established, Sanofi will have the option to license rights to the product candidate pursuant to the IO License and Collaboration Agreement (as further described below). If Sanofi does not exercise its option to license rights to a product candidate, the Company will retain the exclusive right to develop and commercialize such product candidate and Sanofi will be entitled to receive a royalty on sales.  
  In connection with the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi made a   $375.0 million   non-refundable up-front payment to the Company. If Sanofi exercises its option to license rights to a product candidate thereunder, it will co-develop the drug candidate with the Company through product approval. Principal control of development of each product candidate that enters development under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement will alternate between the Company and Sanofi on a candidate-by-candidate basis. Sanofi will fund drug candidate development costs up front for the candidates for which it is the principal controlling party and the Company will reimburse half of the total development costs for all such candidates from its share of future IO Collaboration profits to the extent they are sufficient for this purpose, subject to the same   10%   reimbursement limitation described above. In addition, Sanofi and the Company will share equally, on an ongoing basis, the development costs for the drug candidates for which the Company is the principal controlling party. The party having principal control over the development of a product candidate will also lead the commercialization activities for such product candidate in the United States. For all products commercialized under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the United States. Each party will have the right to co-promote licensed products in countries where it is not the lead commercialization party. The parties will share equally in profits and losses in connection with the commercialization of collaboration products. The Company is obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical requirements of each drug candidate under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement until commercial supplies of that IO drug candidate are being manufactured.  
  Under the terms of the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, the parties will also co-develop the Company s antibody product candidate targeting the receptor known as Programmed Cell Death protein 1, or PD-1 ("REGN2810"). The parties will share equally, on an ongoing basis, development expenses for REGN2810 up to a total of   $650.0 million  . The Company will have principal control over the development of REGN2810 and will lead commercialization activities in the United States, subject to Sanofi s right to co-promote, while Sanofi will lead commercialization activities outside of the United States and the parties will equally share profits from worldwide sales. The Company will be entitled to a milestone payment of   $375.0 million   in the event that sales of all licensed products targeting PD-1 (including REGN2810), together with sales of any other products licensed under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement and sold for use in combination with a licensed product targeting PD-1, equal or exceed   $2.0 billion   in any consecutive   twelve  -month period.    
  
   F- 20 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

With respect to each product candidate that enters development under the IO License and Collaboration Agreement, Sanofi or the Company may, by giving   twelve   months  notice, opt-out of further development and/or commercialization of the product, in which event the other party will retain exclusive rights to continue the development and/or commercialization of such product.   
  At the inception of the IO Collaboration, the Company's significant deliverables consisted of (i) license to certain rights and intellectual property, (ii) providing research and development services, and (iii) manufacturing clinical supplies. The Company concluded that the license did not have standalone value, primarily due to the fact that such rights were not sold separately by the Company, nor could Sanofi receive any benefit from the license without the fulfillment of other ongoing obligations by the Company, including the clinical supply arrangement. Therefore, the deliverables were considered a single unit of accounting. Consequently, the   $640.0 million   in aggregate up-front payments was initially recorded as deferred revenue, and is being recognized ratably as revenue over the related performance period.  
  ZALTRAP 
  In September 2003, the Company entered into a collaboration agreement ("ZALTRAP Collaboration Agreement") with Aventis Pharmaceuticals Inc. (predecessor to Sanofi U.S.) to jointly develop and commercialize ZALTRAP. Under the terms of the ZALTRAP Collaboration Agreement, as amended, Regeneron and Sanofi shared co-promotion rights and profits and losses on sales of ZALTRAP outside of Japan, and the Company was entitled to receive a percentage of sales of ZALTRAP in Japan. Sanofi commenced sales of ZALTRAP for patients with mCRC that is resistant to or has progressed following an oxaliplatin-containing regimen, in the United States in 2012 and in certain European and other countries in 2013.  
  In February 2015, the Company and Sanofi entered into the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement. Under the terms of the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement, Sanofi is solely responsible for the development and commercialization of ZALTRAP for cancer indications worldwide. Sanofi bears the cost of all development and commercialization activities and reimburses Regeneron for its costs for any such activities. Sanofi pays the Company a percentage of aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP during each calendar year, which percentage shall be from   15%   to   30%  , depending on the aggregate net sales of ZALTRAP in such calendar year. The Company will also be paid for all quantities of ZALTRAP manufactured by it, pursuant to a supply agreement, through the earlier of 2021 or the date Sanofi receives regulatory approval to manufacture ZALTRAP at one of its facilities, or a facility of a third party. Unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as neither Sanofi nor its affiliates or sublicensees is developing or commercializing ZALTRAP. 
  As a result of entering into the Amended ZALTRAP Agreement, in the first quarter of 2015, the Company recognized   $14.9 million   of collaboration revenue, which was previously recorded as deferred revenue under the ZALTRAP Collaboration Agreement, related to (i) amounts that were previously reimbursed by Sanofi for manufacturing commercial supplies of ZALTRAP since the risk of inventory loss no longer existed, and (ii) the unamortized portion of up-front payments from Sanofi as the Company had no further performance obligations. In addition, during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, the Company recorded   $26.2 million   and   $38.8 million  , respectively, in other revenue, primarily related to a percentage of net sales of ZALTRAP and manufacturing ZALTRAP commercial supplies for Sanofi.  
  
   F- 21 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

b. Bayer  
  The collaboration revenue the Company earned from Bayer is detailed below:  

Deferred revenue in connection with the Company's collaboration agreements with Bayer is as follows:  

EYLEA outside the United States 
  In October 2006, the Company entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Bayer for the global development and commercialization outside the United States of EYLEA. Under the terms of the agreement, Bayer made a non-refundable up-front payment to the Company of   $75.0 million  . The Company also received from Bayer a   $20.0 million   development milestone payment in 2007 (which, for the purpose of revenue recognition, was not considered substantive). The   $75.0 million   up-front payment and the   $20.0 million   milestone payment are being recognized as collaboration revenue over the related estimated performance period. 
  Since 2009, all agreed-upon EYLEA development expenses incurred by the Company and Bayer, under a global development plan, are being shared equally. The Company is also obligated to use commercially reasonable efforts to supply clinical and commercial bulk product of EYLEA. Bayer has the right to terminate the license and collaboration agreement without cause with at least   six   months' or   twelve   months' advance notice depending on defined circumstances at the time of termination. In the event of termination of the agreement for any reason, the Company retains all rights to EYLEA. 
  Bayer commenced sales of EYLEA outside the United States for the treatment of wet AMD in 2012, macular edema secondary to CRVO in 2013, visual impairment due to DME and mCNV (in Japan) in 2014, and macular edema following BRVO in 2015.  
  
   F- 22 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Bayer markets EYLEA outside the United States, where, for countries other than Japan, the companies share equally in profits and losses from sales of EYLEA. In Japan, the Company is entitled to receive a tiered percentage of between   33.5%   and   40.0%   of EYLEA net sales. Within the United States, the Company is responsible for commercialization of EYLEA and retains exclusive rights to all profits from such commercialization in the United States. The Company is obligated to reimburse Bayer out of its share of the collaboration profits (including the Company's percentage of sales of EYLEA in Japan) for   50%   of the agreed-upon development expenses that Bayer  has incurred in accordance with a formula based on the amount of development expenses that Bayer has incurred and the Company's share of the collaboration profits, or at a faster rate at the Company's option. The Company's contingent reimbursement obligation to Bayer was approximately   $256 million   as of December 31, 2016.  
  In 2014, the Company earned, and recorded as revenue,   $90.0 million   of sales milestone payments from Bayer upon total aggregate net sales of EYLEA outside the United States achieving certain specified levels starting at   $500.0 million   over a   twelve  -month period. In addition, in connection with a November 2013 agreement under which Bayer obtained rights to use certain of the Company's EYLEA clinical data for a regulatory filing, the Company earned, and recorded as revenue, a   $15.0 million   sales milestone payment in 2014 from Bayer upon total aggregate net sales of specific commercial supplies of EYLEA outside the United States exceeding   $100.0 million   over a   twelve  -month period. In 2015, the Company earned, and recorded as revenue, the final sales milestone payment from Bayer, in the amount of   $15.0 million  , upon total aggregate net sales of specific commercial supplies of EYLEA outside the United States exceeding   $200.0 million   over a    twelve  -month period.  
  In January 2014, Bayer decided to participate in the global development and commercialization of EYLEA outside the United States for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO. In connection with this decision, Bayer reimbursed Regeneron   $15.7 million   for a defined share of the EYLEA global development costs that the Company had incurred prior to February 2014 for the BRVO indication, which was recognized as Bayer collaboration revenue in the first quarter of 2014 and is included with "Cost-sharing of Regeneron EYLEA development expenses" in the table above. In addition, all future agreed upon global EYLEA development expenses incurred in connection with BRVO are being shared equally, and any profits or losses on sales of EYLEA outside of the United States for the treatment of macular edema following BRVO are also shared (for countries other than Japan). The Company is entitled to receive a tiered percentage of EYLEA net sales in Japan.  
  In periods when Bayer incurs agreed-upon EYLEA development expenses that benefit the collaboration and Regeneron, the Company recognizes, as additional research and development expense, the portion of Bayer's EYLEA development expenses that the Company is obligated to reimburse. In 2016, 2015, and 2014, the Company recognized as research and development expense   $1.4 million  ,   $13.7 million  , and   $18.6 million  , respectively, of EYLEA development expenses that the Company was obligated to reimburse to Bayer.   
  PDGFR-beta antibody outside the United States  
  In January 2014, the Company entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Bayer governing the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of an antibody product candidate to Platelet Derived Growth Factor Receptor Beta (PDGFR-beta), including REGN2176-3, a combination product candidate comprised of an antibody to PDGFR-beta co-formulated with aflibercept. The agreement provides that the Company would conduct the initial development of the PDGFR-beta antibody through completion of the first proof-of-concept study, upon which Bayer would have a right to opt-in to license and collaborate on further development and commercialization outside the United States. Effective in the first quarter of 2017, the Company has discontinued clinical development of REGN2176-3. 
  In connection with the agreement, Bayer made a   $25.5 million   non-refundable up-front payment to the Company in January 2014, and is obligated to pay   25%   of global development costs and   50%   of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States under the initial development plan. In addition, Bayer is obligated to reimburse the Company for   50%   of development milestone payments to Sanofi related to the Company's acquisition of rights to antibodies targeting the PDGF family of receptors in May 2013. In that regard, Bayer made   two     $2.5 million   development milestone payments to the Company in 2014 (both of which, for the purpose of revenue recognition, were not considered substantive) and a   $5.0 million   development milestone payment to the Company in 2015 (which was recognized as a substantive milestone).  
  From inception of the agreement until Bayer has the right to opt-in to the collaboration, the Company's sole significant deliverable is research and development services provided in accordance with the agreement. Therefore, the   $25.5 million   up-front payment was allocated to this deliverable, initially recorded as deferred revenue, and will be recognized as revenue over the related performance period. In addition, the   two     $2.5 million   non-substantive development milestone payments from Bayer were also initially recorded as deferred revenue and will be recognized over the same performance period as the up-front payment.  
  
   F- 23 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Ang2 antibody outside the United States 
  In March 2016, the Company entered into an agreement with Bayer governing the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of an antibody product candidate to angiopoietin-2 (Ang2), including in combination with aflibercept, for the treatment of ocular diseases or disorders. In connection with the agreement, Bayer made a   $50.0 million   non-refundable up-front payment to the Company and is obligated to pay   25%   of global development costs and   50%   of development costs exclusively for the territory outside the United States. The Company is also entitled to receive up to an aggregate of   $80.0 million   in development milestone payments from Bayer. Bayer will share profits and losses from sales outside the United States equally with the Company, and is responsible for certain royalties payable to Sanofi on sales of the product outside of the United States. Within the United States, the Company has exclusive commercialization rights and will retain all of the profits from sales. 
  At the inception of the agreement, the Company's significant deliverables consisted of (i) a license to certain rights and intellectual property, (ii) providing research and development services, and (iii) manufacturing clinical supplies. The Company concluded that the license did not have standalone value, as such right was not sold separately by the Company, nor could Bayer receive any benefit from the license without the fulfillment of other ongoing obligations by the Company, including the clinical supply arrangement. Therefore, the deliverables were considered a single unit of accounting. Consequently, the   $50.0 million   up-front payment was initially recorded as deferred revenue, and will be recognized ratably as revenue over the related performance period.  
  Unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as neither party or its respective affiliates or sublicensees is developing or commercializing an Ang2 antibody in the specified field outside of the United States and such discontinuation is acknowledged as permanent by both the Company and Bayer.  
  c. Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma 
  In September 2015, the Company and Mitsubishi Tanabe Pharma Corporation ("MTPC") entered into a collaboration agreement (the "MTPC Collaboration  Agreement") providing MTPC with development and commercial rights to fasinumab, the Company's nerve growth factor antibody in late-stage clinical development, in Japan, South Korea, Taiwan, Indonesia, Thailand, the Philippines, Malaysia, Singapore, Vietnam, Myanmar, and Sri Lanka (the "MTPC Territories"). In connection with the agreement, MTPC made a   $10.0 million   non-refundable up-front payment. In the first quarter of 2016, MTPC made additional payments of   $45.0 million   and   $15.0 million   to the Company, which were recorded as deferred revenue and are being recognized ratably as revenue over the same performance period as the up-front payment. The Company is entitled to receive up to an aggregate of   $65.0 million   in development milestones if achieved by the Company and   $90.0 million   in other contingent payments, primarily related to development milestones achieved by MTPC.  
  Under the MTPC Collaboration Agreement, the Company is obligated to manufacture and supply MTPC with clinical and commercial supplies of fasinumab. If fasinumab is commercialized in the MTPC Territories, the Company will supply the product to MTPC at a tiered purchase price, which ranges from   30%   to   50%   of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances), and is eligible for additional payments up to an aggregate of   $100.0 million   upon the achievement of specified annual net sales amounts starting at   $200.0 million  . Unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the MTPC Collaboration  Agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as MTPC has ceased developing or commercializing fasinumab in the MTPC Territories. 
  At the inception of the MTPC Collaboration Agreement, the Company's significant deliverables consisted of (i) exclusive rights to develop and commercialize fasinumab in the MTPC Territories, and (ii) manufacturing clinical and commercial supplies. The Company concluded that the license did not have standalone value, as such right was not sold separately by the Company, nor could MTPC receive any benefit from the license without the manufacturing services to be rendered by the Company. Therefore, the deliverables were considered a single unit of accounting. Consequently, the   $10.0 million   up-front payment was initially recorded as deferred revenue, and is being recognized ratably as revenue over the related performance period. 
  The Company recognized   $14.4 million   of revenue in 2016 in connection with the MTPC Collaboration Agreement. Revenue recognized in connection with this agreement was not material in 2015.  
  d. Teva  
  In September 2016, the Company and Teva entered into a collaboration agreement (the "Teva Collaboration Agreement") to develop and commercialize fasinumab globally, excluding certain Asian countries that are subject to the Company's collaboration agreement with MTPC (as described above). In connection with the Teva Collaboration Agreement, Teva made a   $250.0 million   non-refundable up-front payment in September 2016. The Company will lead global development activities, and the parties will  
  
   F- 24 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

share equally, on an ongoing basis, development costs under a global development plan. In addition, the Company is entitled to receive up to an aggregate of   $460.0 million   in development milestones and up to an aggregate of   $1,890.0 million   in contingent payments upon achievement of specified annual net sales amounts. The Company is responsible for the manufacture and supply of fasinumab globally. 
  Within the United States, the Company will lead commercialization activities, and the parties will share equally in any profits and losses in connection with commercialization of fasinumab. In the territory outside the United States, Teva will lead commercialization activities and the Company will supply product to Teva at a tiered purchase price, which is calculated as a percentage of net sales of the product (subject to adjustment in certain circumstances). Unless terminated earlier in accordance with its provisions, the Teva Collaboration Agreement will continue to be in effect until such time as neither party is developing or commercializing fasinumab. 
  At the inception of the Teva Collaboration Agreement, the Company's significant deliverables consisted of (i) a license to certain rights and intellectual property, (ii) providing research and development services, and (iii) manufacturing clinical supplies. The Company concluded that the license did not have standalone value, primarily due to the fact that such rights were not sold separately by the Company, nor could Teva receive any benefit from the license without the fulfillment of the other ongoing obligations by the Company, including the clinical supply arrangement. Therefore, the deliverables were considered a single unit of accounting. Consequently, the   $250.0 million   up-front payment was initially recorded as deferred revenue, and is being  recognized ratably as revenue over the related performance period.  
  The Company recognized   $37.9 million   of revenue in 2016 in connection with the Teva Collaboration Agreement. 
  e. Intellia Therapeutics    
  In April 2016, the Company entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Intellia Therapeutics, Inc. to advance CRISPR/Cas gene-editing technology for   in vivo   therapeutic development. The Company will collaborate with Intellia to conduct research for the discovery, development, and commercialization of new therapies ("Product Collaboration"), in addition to the research and technology development of the CRISPR/Cas platform ("Technology Collaboration"). In connection with the execution of the agreement, the Company made a   $75.0 million   up-front payment, which was recorded as research and development expense in the second quarter of 2016, and also agreed to purchase Intellia shares contingent upon Intellia consummating its next equity financing. The Company is responsible for costs of developing and commercializing CRISPR/Cas products under the Product Collaboration agreement and is also obligated to pay potential development and sales milestones, and royalties on any future sales of such products resulting from the development and commercialization of CRISPR/Cas products. In addition, under the Technology Collaboration agreement, the Company is responsible for funding certain research and technology development costs. 
  Under the terms of the Product Collaboration agreement, the parties agreed to a target selection process, whereby the Company may obtain exclusive rights in up to   10   targets to be chosen by the Company during the collaboration term, subject to various adjustments and limitations set forth in the agreement. Additionally, the Company may replace a limited number of targets with substitute targets upon the payment of a replacement fee, in which case rights to the replaced target(s) will revert to Intellia. 
  The Technology Collaboration term and the period for selecting targets for inclusion under the Product Collaboration both end in 2022, provided that the Company may make a payment to extend the term for an additional   two  -year period. The Product Collaboration agreement will continue until the date when no royalty or other payment obligations are due, unless earlier terminated in accordance with the terms of the agreement. 
  Certain targets that either the Company or Intellia select pursuant to the target selection process may be subject to a co-development and co-commercialization arrangement at the Company's option or Intellia's option, as applicable. 
  In May 2016, Intellia completed an initial public offering ("IPO") of its common stock and thereby triggered the Company's obligation to purchase up to   $50.0 million   of Intellia common stock in a concurrent private placement. As part of the concurrent private placement, the Company purchased from Intellia at the closing of the IPO   2,777,777   shares of Intellia common stock for an aggregate purchase price of   $50.0 million   (see Note 6).  
  f. Adicet Bio 
  In July 2016, the Company entered into a license and collaboration agreement with Adicet Bio, Inc., a privately held company, to develop next-generation engineered immune-cell therapeutics with fully human chimeric antigen receptors ("CARs") and T-cell receptors ("TCRs") directed to disease-specific cell surface antigens in order to enable the precise engagement and killing of  
  
   F- 25 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

tumor cells. In connection with the execution of the agreement, the Company made a   $25.0 million   up-front payment to Adicet, which was recorded as research and development expense in the third quarter of 2016, and is obligated to provide Adicet with research funding over the course of a   five  -year research term. 
  Under the terms of the agreement, the Company and Adicet will collaborate to identify and validate targets and work together to develop a pipeline of engineered immune-cell therapeutics for selected targets. The Company has the option to obtain development and commercial rights for a certain number of the product candidates developed by the parties, subject to an option payment for each product candidate. If the Company exercises its option on a given product candidate, Adicet then will have an option to participate in the development and commercialization for such product. If Adicet doesn t exercise its option, Adicet will be entitled to royalties on any future sales of such products by the Company. In addition to developing CARs and TCRs for use in novel immune-cell therapies as part of the collaboration, the Company will have the right to use these CARs and TCRs in its other antibody programs outside of the collaboration. 
  The Company will also be entitled to royalties on any future sales of products developed and commercialized by Adicet under the agreement for all products for which the Company does not have development and commercial rights. 
  g. Other  
  In addition to the collaboration agreements discussed above, the Company has various other collaboration agreements that are not individually, or in the aggregate, significant to its operating results or financial condition at this time. Pursuant to the terms of those agreements, the Company may be required to pay, or it may receive, additional amounts upon the achievement of various development and commercial milestones which in the aggregate could be significant. The Company may also incur, or get reimbursed for, significant research and development costs if the related product candidate(s) were to advance to late stage clinical trials. In addition, if any products related to these collaborations are approved for sale, the Company may be required to pay, or it may receive, royalties on future sales. The payment or receipt of these amounts, however, is contingent upon the occurrence of various future events. 
   
  4. Technology Licensing Agreement 
  In March 2007, the Company entered into a   six  -year, non-exclusive license agreement with Astellas Pharma Inc. to allow Astellas to utilize the Company's   VelocImmune   technology in its internal research programs to discover human monoclonal antibodies. In July 2010, the license agreement with Astellas was amended and extended through June 2023. Under the terms of the amended agreement, Astellas made a   $165.0 million   up-front payment to the Company in 2010, which was deferred upon receipt and is being recognized as revenue ratably over a   seven  -year period beginning in mid-2011. In addition, Astellas will make a   $130.0 million   second payment to the Company in June 2018 unless the license agreement has been terminated prior to that date. Astellas has the right to terminate the agreement at any time by providing   90   days' advance written notice. Under certain limited circumstances, such as a material breach of the agreement by the Company, Astellas may terminate the agreement and receive a refund of a portion of its up-front payment or, if such termination occurs after June 2018, a portion of its second payment, to the Company under the July 2010 amendment to the agreement. The Company is entitled to receive a mid-single digit royalty on any future sales of antibody products discovered by Astellas using the Company's   VelocImmune   technology. In connection with the Astellas license agreement, for each of the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, the Company recognized   $23.6 million   of other revenue. In addition, deferred revenue at December 31, 2016 and 2015 in connection with the Astellas license agreement was   $33.9 million   and   $57.4 million  , respectively. 
   
  5. Marketable Securities 
  Marketable securities as of   December 31, 2016   and 2015 consist of both debt securities of investment grade issuers as well as equity securities.  
  
   F- 26 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

The following tables summarize the Company's investments in marketable securities: 

The Company classifies its debt security investments based on their contractual maturity dates. The debt securities listed as of   December 31, 2016   mature at various dates through November 2021. The fair values of debt security investments by contractual maturity consist of the following: 

F- 27 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

The following table shows the fair value of the Company's marketable securities that have unrealized losses and that are deemed to be only temporarily impaired, aggregated by investment category and length of time that the individual securities have been in a continuous unrealized loss position. 

During the year ended December 31, 2016, the Company recorded an other-than-temporary impairment charge of   $9.8 million   related to its investment in an equity security. There were   no   other-than-temporary impairment charges recorded on the Company's investments during 2015 or 2014. Realized gains and losses on sales of marketable securities were not material for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. For the year ended December 31, 2014, total realized gains on sales of marketable securities were not material and there were   no   realized losses. 
  Changes in the Company's accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) for the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014 related to unrealized gains and losses on available-for-sale marketable securities. For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, amounts reclassified from accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) into other income (expense), net in the Company's Consolidated Statements of Operations were related to the 2016 impairment charge on the equity security and realized gains and losses on sales of marketable securities described above.  
  
   F- 28 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

6. Fair Value Measurements 
  The Company's assets that are measured at fair value on a recurring basis consist of the following: 

Marketable securities included in Level 2 are valued using quoted market prices for similar instruments in active markets, quoted prices for identical or similar instruments in markets that are not active, or model-based valuations in which significant inputs used are observable. The Company considers market liquidity in determining the fair value for these securities. The Company did   no  t record any charges for other-than-temporary impairment of its Level 2 marketable securities in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  . 
  There were no purchases, sales, or maturities of Level 3 marketable securities and   no   unrealized gains or losses related to Level 3 marketable securities for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015. During 2016, transfers of marketable securities from Level 2 to Level 1 were   $44.1 million   in connection with the lapse of transfer restrictions in November 2016 on the Company's investment in Intellia common shares. During 2015, transfers of marketable securities from Level 2 to Level 1 were   $91.4 million   in connection with the lapse of the transfer restrictions in January 2015 on the Company's investment in Adverum Biotechnologies, Inc. (formerly Avalanche Biotechnologies, Inc.) common shares.   The Company's policy for recognition of transfers between levels of the fair value hierarchy is to recognize any transfer at the beginning of the fiscal quarter in which the determination to transfer was made.   There were   no   other transfers of marketable securities between Levels 1, 2, or 3 classifications during the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015.  
  As of December 31,   2015  , the Company had   $11.2 million   in aggregate principal amount of   1.875%   convertible senior notes outstanding that matured in October 2016 (see Note 11). The fair value of the outstanding convertible senior notes was estimated to be   $72.8 million   as of  December 31,   2015  , and was determined based on Level 2 inputs, such as market and observable sources.  
  
   F- 29 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

7.     Inventories 
  Inventories consist of the following: 

Deferred costs represent the costs of product manufactured and shipped to the Company's collaborators for which recognition of revenue has been deferred (see Note 1). For the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , cost of goods sold included inventory write-downs and reserves totaling   $14.0 million  ,   $10.6 million  , and   $6.0 million  , respectively.  
   
  8. Property, Plant, and Equipment 
  Property, plant, and equipment consist of the following: 

As of December 31, 2016 and 2015,   $1,441.2 million   and   $1,118.4 million  , respectively, of the Company's property, plant, and equipment was located in the United States and   $642.2 million   and   $475.7 million  , respectively, was located in Ireland. In 2015, the Company acquired an approximate 100-acre parcel of undeveloped land adjacent to the Company's current Tarrytown, New York location for an aggregate purchase price of   $73.0 million  .  
  Depreciation and amortization expense on property, plant, and equipment amounted to   $104.7 million  ,   $74.9 million  , and   $52.7 million   for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively.  
  Property, plant, and equipment, at cost, as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015   included   $269.0 million   and   $254.6 million  , respectively, of costs incurred by the Company's landlord to construct laboratory and office facilities in Tarrytown, New York. Additionally, property, plant, and equipment, at cost, as of   December 31, 2016   included   $138.1 million   of leased property under a capital lease. See Note 12a. 
  
   F- 30 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

9.     Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 
  Accounts payable and accrued expenses consist of the following: 

10. Deferred Revenue 
  Deferred revenue consists of the following: 

11. Debt 
  a. Convertible Debt 
  In October 2011, the Company issued   $400.0 million   aggregate principal amount of   1.875%   convertible senior notes (the "Notes") in a private placement. The Notes paid interest semi-annually on April 1 and October 1, and matured on October 1, 2016. The Notes were convertible, subject to certain conditions, into cash, shares of the Company's Common Stock, or a combination of cash and shares of Common Stock, at the Company's option. The Notes initial conversion price was approximately   $84.02   per share.  
  
   F- 31 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

In accordance with accounting guidance for debt with conversion and other options, the Company accounted for the liability and equity components of the Notes separately. The estimated fair value of the liability component at the date of issuance was   $271.1 million  , and was computed based on the fair value of similar debt instruments that do not include a conversion feature. The equity component of   $120.9 million   was recognized as a debt discount and represents the difference between the   $392.0 million   of gross proceeds from the issuance of the Notes and the   $271.1 million   estimated fair value of the liability component at the date of issuance. The debt discount was amortized over the expected life of a similar liability without the equity component. The Company determined this expected life to be equal to the term of the Notes, resulting in an amortization period ending October 1, 2016. The effective interest rate used to amortize the debt discount was approximately   10.2%  , which was based on the Company's estimated non-convertible borrowing rate as of the date the Notes were issued.   
  In connection with the offering of the Notes in October 2011, the Company entered into convertible note hedge ("call option") and warrant transactions with multiple counterparties, including an affiliate of the initial purchaser of the Notes. The convertible note hedge covered, subject to customary anti-dilution adjustments, the number of shares of the Company's Common Stock that initially underlie the Notes, and were intended to reduce the potential dilutive impact of the conversion feature of the Notes. The convertible note hedge terminated upon the earlier of the maturity date of the Notes or the first day the Notes were no longer outstanding. The Company paid   $117.5 million   for the convertible note hedge, which was recorded as a reduction to additional paid-in capital. The warrants had an initial strike price of approximately   $103.41   per share, could be settled in cash or shares of the Company's Common Stock, at the Company's option, and were to become exercisable at various dates during 2017. Proceeds received from the warrant transactions totaled   $93.8 million   and were recorded as additional paid-in capital. The original convertible note hedge and warrants were both considered indexed to the Company's Common Stock and classified as equity; therefore, the convertible note hedge and warrants were not accounted for as derivative instruments.  
  During 2015, the Company settled conversion obligations for   $166.5 million   principal amount of the Company's Notes that was previously surrendered for conversion. In accordance with the terms of the Notes, the Company elected to settle these conversion obligations through a combination of cash, in an amount equal to the principal amount of the converted Notes, and shares of the Company's Common Stock in respect of any amounts due in excess thereof. Consequently, in 2015, the Company paid   $166.5 million   in cash and issued   1,625,113   shares of Common Stock. In addition, in 2015, the Company allocated   $819.7 million   of the settlement consideration provided to the Note holders to the reacquisition of the equity component of the Notes, and recognized such amount as a reduction of stockholders' equity. In 2015, the Company also recognized a   $18.9 million   loss on the debt extinguishment. In connection with the Note conversions in 2015, the Company also exercised a proportionate amount of its convertible note hedges, for which the Company received   1,625,088   shares of Common Stock, which was approximately equal to the number of shares the Company was required to issue to settle the non-cash portion of the related Note conversions. The Company recorded the cost of the shares received, or   $136.5 million  , as Treasury Stock during 2015. 
  During 2016, the Company settled conversion obligations for   $12.9 million   principal amount of the Company's Notes. Consequently, in 2016, the Company paid   $12.9 million   in cash and issued   121,058   shares of Common Stock. In addition, the Company allocated   $47.8 million   of the settlement consideration provided to the Note holders to the reacquisition of the equity component of the Notes, and recognized such amount as a reduction of stockholders' equity. The loss on the debt extinguishment in connection with the Notes that were surrendered for conversion during 2016 was not material. As a result of these Note conversions, the Company also exercised a proportionate amount of its convertible note hedges during 2016, for which the Company received   121,048   shares of Common Stock, which was approximately equal to the number of shares the Company was required to issue to settle the non-cash portion of the related Note conversions. The Company recorded the cost of the shares received, or   $10.2 million  , as Treasury Stock during 2016. 
  The net carrying amount of the liability component of the Notes consists of the following:  

F- 32 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

The December 31, 2015 net carrying amount of the liability component of the Notes was recorded within other current liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet since the Notes were due to mature on October 1, 2016. 
  Total interest expense associated with the Notes, net of capitalized interest as applicable, consists of the following:  

Warrant Transactions 
  In November 2014, the Company entered into an amendment agreement with a warrant holder whereby the parties agreed to reduce a portion of the number of warrants held by the warrant holder. The Company was obligated to settle any payments due under the amendment agreement in February 2015. Given that the amendment agreement contained a conditional obligation that required settlement in cash, and the Company's obligation was indexed to the Company's share price, the Company reclassified the estimated fair value of the   493,229   warrants from additional paid-in capital to a liability in November 2014, with such liability subsequently measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized in earnings. As a result of the warrant holder closing out a portion of its hedge position prior to December 31, 2014, the Company recorded a   $59.8 million   accrued liability as of December 31, 2014 and the estimated fair value of the remaining liability as of December 31, 2014 was   $87.5 million  , which was recorded within other current liabilities within the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. During the first quarter of 2015, the warrant holder closed out additional portions of its hedge position, and, as a result, in February 2015 the Company paid a total of   $124.0 million   to reduce the number of warrants held by such warrant holder by   416,480  . Upon expiration of the November 2014 amended agreement, in the first quarter of 2015, the remaining warrants were re-measured at fair value, and   $23.3 million   was reclassified back to additional paid-in capital, consistent with the original classification of the warrants under the 2011 issuance. Total losses related to changes in fair value of the warrants during the first quarter of 2015 were not material. 
  During 2014, in addition to the November 2014 warrant agreement described above, the Company entered into agreements to reduce the number of warrants held by the warrant holders. The Company was able to settle, at its option, any payments due under the amendment agreement in cash or by delivering shares of Common Stock. Pursuant to the agreements, the Company paid an aggregate amount of   $294.6 million   to the warrant holders to reduce the maximum number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the warrants by   1,220,745   in the aggregate.  
  In November 2015, the Company entered into an amendment agreement with a warrant holder whereby the parties agreed to reduce a portion of the number of warrants held by the warrant holder. The reduction in the number of warrants was determined based on the number of warrants with respect to which the warrant holder closed out its hedge position, provided that the warrant holder did not effect any purchases at a price per share exceeding   $535.00   per share, during the period starting on November 16, 2015 and ending no later than   February 9, 2016  . The Company was able to settle, at its option, any payments due under the amendment agreement in cash or by delivering shares of Common Stock. As a result of the warrant holder closing out a portion of its hedge position prior to December 31, 2015, the Company paid a total of   $50.0 million   in 2015 to reduce the number of warrants it held by   115,970  . Additionally, during January 2016, the warrant holder closed out additional portions of its hedge position, and, as a result, the Company paid a total of   $135.3 million   in the first quarter of 2016 to further reduce the number of warrants held by such warrant holder by   360,406   (which was the remaining maximum number of warrants to be reduced subject to the amendment agreement).  
  In addition to the warrant transactions described above, during 2015, the Company entered into other agreements to reduce the number of warrants held by warrant holders. The Company was able to settle, at its option, any payments due under the amendment agreement in cash or by delivering shares of Common Stock. Pursuant to the agreements, the Company paid an aggregate amount of   $399.5 million   to the warrant holders during 2015 to reduce the number of shares of Common Stock issuable upon exercise of the warrant by   898,547   in the aggregate.  
  In February 2016, the Company entered into an amendment agreement with a warrant holder whereby the parties agreed to reduce a portion of the number of warrants held by the warrant holder by up to a maximum of   975,142  . The reduction in the number of warrants was determined based on the number of warrants with respect to which the warrant holder closed out its hedge position,  
  
   F- 33 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

provided that the warrant holder did not effect any purchases at a price per share exceeding   $375.00   per share, during the period starting on February 22, 2016 and ending no later than May 5, 2016. The Company was able to settle, at its option, any payments due under the amendment agreement in cash or by delivering shares of Common Stock. As a result of the warrant holder closing out a portion of its hedge position, the Company paid a total of   $106.9 million   to reduce the number of warrants held by such warrant holder by   403,665  .  
  In November 2016, the Company and warrant holders entered into warrant termination agreements whereby the parties agreed to cancel the remaining warrants held by the warrant holders and to terminate the respective warrant agreements in consideration for payments by the Company of   $401.2 million   in the aggregate. The Company made the termination payments in the fourth quarter of 2016, and, as a result, no warrants remained outstanding as of December 31, 2016. 
  b. Credit Facility 
  In March 2015, the Company entered into an agreement with a syndicate of lenders (the "Credit Agreement") which provides for a   $750.0 million   senior unsecured   five  -year revolving credit facility (the "Credit Facility"). The Credit Agreement includes an option for the Company to elect to increase the commitments under the Credit Facility and/or to enter into one or more tranches of term loans in the aggregate principal amount of up to   $250.0 million   subject to the consent of the lenders providing the additional commitments or term loans, as applicable, and certain other conditions. Proceeds of the loans under the Credit Facility may be used to finance working capital needs, and for general corporate or other lawful purposes, of Regeneron and its subsidiaries. The Credit Agreement also provides a   $100.0 million   sublimit for letters of credit. The Credit Agreement includes an option for the Company to elect to extend the maturity date of the Credit Facility beyond March 2020, subject to the consent of the extending lenders and certain other conditions. Amounts borrowed under the Credit Facility may be prepaid, and the commitments under the Credit Facility may be terminated, at any time without premium or penalty. 
  Any loans under the Credit Facility have a variable interest rate based on either the London Interbank Offered Rate ("LIBOR") or an alternate base rate, plus an applicable margin that varies with the Company's debt rating and total leverage ratio. The Company had   no   borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2016.  
  The Credit Agreement contains financial and operating covenants. Financial covenants include a maximum total leverage ratio and a minimum interest expense coverage ratio. The Company was in compliance with all covenants of the Credit Facility as of December 31, 2016. 
   
  12. Commitments and Contingencies       
  a. Leases 
  Descriptions of Lease Agreements 
  The Company leases laboratory and office facilities in Tarrytown, New York (the "Tarrytown Leases"). The facilities leased by the Company in Tarrytown include (i) space in previously existing buildings, (ii) newly constructed space in   two   buildings ("Buildings A and B") that was completed in 2009, (iii) newly constructed space in a third building ("Building C") that was completed in 2011, (iv) under an April 2013 lease agreement, newly constructed laboratory and office space in   two   buildings ("Buildings D and E") that was completed in the third quarter of 2015, and (v) under a June 2015 lease agreement, an existing building ("Building F") that the Company intends to renovate for additional laboratory and office space. The lease agreements related to Buildings A, B, C, D, E, and F (collectively, the "Buildings") expire in 2029; the remaining facilities under the lease expire in June 2024. The Tarrytown Leases provide for monthly payments over their respective terms and additional charges for utilities, taxes, and operating expenses.  
  Historically, certain of the premises under the Tarrytown Leases had been accounted for as operating leases. However, as described further below under "  Facility Lease Obligations  ," for the Buildings that the Company is leasing, the Company is deemed, in substance, to be the owner of the landlord's Buildings in accordance with the application of FASB authoritative guidance.  
  
   F- 34 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

On December 30, 2016, the Company entered into a Purchase Agreement with BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and BMR-Landmark at Eastview IV LLC (collectively, "BMR"), pursuant to which the Company agreed to purchase BMR's Tarrytown, New York facilities (the "Facility") for a purchase price of   $720.0 million  , subject to certain customary adjustments. The Company currently occupies a significant portion of the Facility, with the remaining rentable area, or approximately   300,000   square feet, under leases to third-party tenants. In accordance with the terms of the Purchase Agreement, the Company paid   $57.0 million   toward the purchase price to BMR in December 2016. The closing of the Purchase Agreement is anticipated in the first quarter of 2017. 
  The Company intends to fund the acquisition contemplated by the Purchase Agreement with a new financing. Accordingly, the Company has entered into an engagement letter with Banc of America Leasing   Capital, LLC ("BAL"), pursuant to which BAL has been engaged to use its best efforts to arrange a   $720.0 million   lease financing in connection with the acquisition contemplated by the Purchase Agreement. As part of the contemplated financing, the Company intends to assign some or all its rights under the Purchase Agreement (including the right to take title to the Facility) to an affiliate of BAL at the closing of the financing, as a result of which such affiliate will become the legal owner of the Facility (the "Lessor"). Upon assignment of its rights, the Company expects to be reimbursed by BAL or an affiliate of BAL for the   $57.0 million   payment the Company made in December 2016. Immediately thereafter, the Company intends to lease the Facility from the Lessor for a term of   five   years. At the end of the lease term, the Company expects to have an option to extend the term of the lease (subject to the consent of the financing providers), purchase the Facility at a predetermined amount, or sell the Facility to a third party on behalf of the Lessor.  
  While the Company has engaged BAL to use its best efforts to arrange a financing in connection with the contemplated Purchase Agreement, there is no guarantee that the Company will be able to obtain such financing on the agreed terms or at all.  
  Upon entering into the Purchase Agreement with BMR, the premises under the Company's Tarrytown Leases that were historically accounted for as operating leases were deemed to be modified, as the Company now has the option to purchase the facility, under terms that make it reasonably assured to be exercised. Consequently, the leases for such premises have been re-classified as a capital lease upon execution of the Purchase Agreement, and a proportionate amount of the   $57.0 million   payment was recorded as reduction of the initial capital lease liability. The execution of the Purchase Agreement did not impact the balance sheet classification for the Buildings; however, a proportionate amount of the   $57.0 million   payment was recorded as a reduction of the existing facility lease obligation.   
  The Company also leases certain other laboratory, office, and storage space and equipment under operating leases which expire at various times through 2022. 
  Commitments under Operating Leases 
  The estimated future minimum noncancelable lease commitments under operating leases, as of December 31, 2016, are as follows:     

Rent expense under operating leases was: 

F- 35 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Capital Leases 
  As described above, the Company's Tarrytown Leases that had been historically accounted for as operating leases were re-classified as capital leases upon entering into the Purchase Agreement on December 30, 2016. The estimated future minimum noncancelable lease commitments under these capital leases, as of December 31, 2016, was not material as the Company anticipates closing of the Purchase Agreement in the first quarter of 2017. The Company had   no   additional capital leases as of December 31, 2016. 
  At December 31, 2016, capital lease obligations of   $127.3 million   were included in the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. 
  Facility Lease Obligations  
  Based upon various factors, including the Company's involvement in the construction of the Buildings and its responsibility for directly paying for a substantial portion of tenant improvements, the Company is deemed, in substance, to be the owner of the landlord's Buildings in accordance with the application of FASB authoritative guidance. Consequently, in addition to capitalizing the tenant improvements, the Company capitalizes the landlord's costs of constructing these new facilities, offset by a corresponding lease obligation on the Company's Consolidated Balance Sheet. The Company also recognizes, as additional facility lease obligation, reimbursements from the Company's landlord for tenant improvement costs that the Company incurred since such payments that the Company receives from its landlord are deemed to be a financing obligation. The Company allocates a portion of its lease payments on these facilities between the Buildings and the land on which the Buildings are constructed, based on the initial estimated relative fair values of the land and Buildings. The land element of the lease is treated for accounting purposes as an operating lease.   
   With respect to Buildings A and B, in 2009, monthly lease payments commenced and the buildings were placed in service by the Company. The imputed interest rate applicable to the Company's Buildings A and B facility lease obligation is approximately   12%  . With respect to Building C, in 2011, monthly lease payments commenced and the building was placed in service by the Company. The imputed interest rate applicable to the Company's Building C facility lease obligation is approximately   11%  . With respect to Buildings D and E, in 2015, monthly lease payments commenced and the buildings were placed in service by the Company. The imputed interest rate applicable to the Company's Buildings D and E facility lease obligation is approximately   7%  . With respect to Building F, the building was placed in service by the Company in 2016 and monthly lease payments do not commence until 2017. The imputed interest rate applicable to the Company's Buildings F facility lease obligation is approximately   10%  . In 2016, 2015, and 2014, the Company recognized   $5.4 million  ,   $9.7 million  , and   $14.5 million  , respectively, of interest expense in connection with the Buildings' facility lease obligations.  
  Facility lease obligations consist of the following:     

F- 36 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

The estimated future minimum noncancelable commitments under these facility lease obligations, as of December 31, 2016, exclusive of the potential impact of the closing of the Purchase Agreement (which is anticipated to occur in the first quarter of 2017), are as follows:     

b. Research Collaboration and Licensing Agreements 
  As part of the Company's research and development efforts, the Company enters into research collaboration and licensing agreements with other companies and universities. These agreements contain varying terms and provisions which include fees to be paid by the Company, services to be provided, and license rights to certain proprietary technology developed under the agreements. Some of these agreements may require the Company to pay additional amounts upon the achievement of various development and commercial milestones, contingent upon the occurrence of various future events. Additionally, some of the agreements contain provisions which require the Company to pay royalties, as defined, at rates that range from   0.5%   to   16.5%  , in the event the Company sells or licenses any proprietary products developed under the respective agreements. The Company also has contingent reimbursement obligations to its collaborators Sanofi and Bayer once the applicable collaboration becomes profitable. See Note 3. 
  In December 2011, the Company and Genentech, a member of the Roche Group, entered into a Non-Exclusive License and Partial Settlement Agreement (the "Original Genentech Agreement") that covered making, using, and selling EYLEA for the prevention of human eye diseases and disorders in the United States, and ended the litigation relating to those matters. Pursuant to the Original Genentech Agreement, the Company received a non-exclusive license to certain patents relating to VEGF receptor proteins, known as the Davis-Smyth patents, and other technology patents. The Original Genentech Agreement provided for the Company to make payments to Genentech based on U.S. sales of EYLEA commencing upon FDA approval of EYLEA in November 2011 through May 7, 2016. The Company made a one-time, non-refundable   $60.0 million   payment during 2012 upon cumulative U.S. sales of EYLEA reaching   $400.0 million  , and was obligated to pay royalties of   4.75%   on cumulative U.S. sales of EYLEA between   $400.0 million   and   $3.0 billion   and   5.5%   on any cumulative U.S sales of EYLEA over   $3.0 billion  . As the Company recorded net product sales of EYLEA, the Company recognized expense in connection with the Genentech Agreement using a blended mid-single digit royalty rate that reflected both the   $60.0 million   payment and the royalties payable on cumulative sales and that was based upon the Company's estimate of cumulative EYLEA sales through May 7, 2016. 
  Effective May 17, 2013, the Company entered into an Amended and Restated Non-Exclusive License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech (the "Amended Genentech Agreement"), which amended the Original Genentech Agreement to include all sales of EYLEA worldwide and ended the litigation relating to those matters. Under the Amended Genentech Agreement, the Company received a worldwide non-exclusive license to the Davis-Smyth patents, and certain other patents, owned or co-owned by Genentech for the prevention or treatment of eye diseases and eye disorders in a human through administration of EYLEA to the eye. Under the Amended Genentech Agreement, the Company was obligated to make payments to Genentech based on sales of EYLEA in the United States, and EYLEA manufactured in the United States and sold outside the United States, through May 7, 2016 using the same milestone and royalty rates as in the Original Genentech Agreement. EYLEA is sold outside the United States by affiliates of Bayer under the Company's license and collaboration agreement. All payments to Genentech under the Original Genentech Agreement and the Amended Genentech Agreement were made by the Company, and Bayer shared in all such payments based on the proportion of EYLEA sales outside the United States to worldwide EYLEA sales and determined consistent with the license and collaboration agreement. The Company's obligation to pay royalties pursuant to the Original Genentech Agreement and Amended Genentech Agreement terminated on May 7, 2016, when the licenses granted to the Company thereunder became fully paid up and royalty free for the duration of the remaining term of the underlying patents. 
  
   F- 37 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

For the years ended December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, the Company recorded royalty expense of   $125.3 million  ,   $247.9 million  , and   $169.9 million  , respectively, based on product sales of commercial products under various licensing agreements (including the Genentech agreements described above). 
   
  13. Stockholders' Equity  
  The Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, as amended, provides for the issuance of up to   40 million   shares of Class A Stock, par value   $0.001   per share, and   320 million   shares of Common Stock (increased from   160 million   shares effective upon shareholder approval obtained in 2015), par value   $0.001   per share. Shares of Class A Stock are convertible, at any time, at the option of the holder into shares of Common Stock on a share-for-share basis. Holders of Class A Stock have rights and privileges identical to Common Stockholders except that each share of Class A is entitled to   ten votes per share  , while each share of Common Stock is entitled to   one vote per share  . Class A Stock may only be transferred to specified Permitted Transferees, as defined. Under the Company's Restated Certificate of Incorporation, the Company's board of directors is authorized to issue up to   30 million   shares of Preferred Stock, in series, with rights, privileges, and qualifications of each series determined by the board of directors.  
  In December 2007, Sanofi purchased   12 million   newly issued, unregistered shares of the Company's Common Stock. As a condition to the closing of this transaction, Sanofi entered into an investor agreement, as amended and restated in January 2014, with the Company. Under the terms of the amended and restated investor agreement, Sanofi has   three   demand rights to require the Company to use all reasonable efforts to conduct a registered underwritten public offering with respect to shares of the Company's Common Stock held by Sanofi from time to time. Under the amended and restated investor agreement, Sanofi has also agreed not to dispose of any shares of the Company's Common Stock beneficially owned by Sanofi from time to time until the later of (i) December 20, 2020, and (ii) the expiration of the Antibody Discovery Agreement with Sanofi, as amended (see Note 3a) if the agreement is extended beyond December 20, 2020. These restrictions on dispositions are subject to earlier termination upon the occurrence of certain events, such as the consummation of a change-of-control transaction involving the Company or the Company's dissolution or liquidation, and certain restrictions have been imposed on the manner of sales thereafter.  
  Further, pursuant to the amended and restated investor agreement, Sanofi is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit Sanofi from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of the Company or acquiring more than   30%   of the outstanding shares of the Company's Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). This prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the later of the fifth anniversaries of the expiration or earlier termination of the Company's License and Collaboration Agreement with Sanofi and the Company's ZALTRAP Agreement with Sanofi, each as amended (see Note 3a) and (ii) other specified events. Sanofi has also agreed to vote as recommended by the Company's board of directors, except that it may elect to vote proportionally with the votes cast by all of the Company's other shareholders with respect to certain change-of-control transactions, and to vote in its sole discretion with respect to liquidation or dissolution, stock issuances equal to or exceeding   20%   of the outstanding shares or voting rights of the Company's Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together), and new equity compensation plans or amendments if not materially consistent with the Company's historical equity compensation practices. The rights and restrictions under the investor agreement are subject to termination upon the occurrence of certain events.  
  In addition, upon Sanofi reaching   20%   ownership of the Company's outstanding shares of Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together) during 2014, the Company was required to appoint an individual agreed upon by the Company and Sanofi  to the Company's board of directors. This individual is required to be independent of the Company, and not to be a current or former officer, director, employee, or paid consultant of Sanofi. 
  In connection with the Company's license and collaboration agreements with Bayer for the joint development and commercialization outside the United States of antibody product candidates to PDGFR-beta and Ang2 (see Note 3b), Bayer is bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit Bayer from seeking to influence the control of the Company or acquiring more than   20%   of the Company's outstanding shares of Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). With respect to each of these agreements, this prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement or (ii) other specified events.  
  Further, pursuant to the 2016 Teva Collaboration Agreement, Teva and its affiliates are bound by certain "standstill" provisions, which contractually prohibit them from seeking to directly or indirectly exert control of the Company or acquiring more than   5%   of the Company's Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together). This prohibition will remain in place until the earliest of (i) the fifth anniversary of the expiration or earlier termination of the agreement; (ii) the Company's announcement recommending acceptance by the Company's shareholders of a tender offer or exchange offer that, if consummated, would constitute a change of control involving the Company; (iii) the public announcement of any definitive agreement providing for a change of control  
  
   F- 38 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

involving the Company; (iv) the acquisition of more than   30%   of the voting power of the Company's then outstanding Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together); (v) the date of any issuance of shares of capital stock by the Company that would result in another party having more than   10%   of the voting power of the Company's then outstanding Class A Stock and Common Stock (taken together) unless such party enters into a standstill agreement containing certain terms substantially similar to the standstill obligations of Teva; or (vi) other specified events, such as a liquidation or dissolution of the Company. 
  In October 2011, the Company completed a private placement of   $400.0 million   aggregate principal amount of Notes, which were convertible into shares of the Company's Common Stock. In connection with the offering of the Notes in October 2011, the Company entered into convertible note hedge and warrant transactions. During 2016, 2015, and 2014, the Company elected to settle Notes which were surrendered for conversion through a combination of cash, in an amount equal to the principal amount of the converted Notes, and shares of the Company's Common Stock in respect of any amounts due in excess thereof. A portion of the settlement consideration provided to the Note holders was allocated to the reacquisition of the equity component of the Notes. In addition, as a result of the Note conversions, the Company exercised a proportionate amount of its convertible note hedges, for which the Company received shares of Common Stock. The shares received were recorded as Treasury Stock, at cost. See Note 11. 
  During 2016, 2015, and 2014, the Company entered into agreements and made payments to reduce the number of warrants held by warrant holders. In addition, in November 2014, the Company entered into an amendment agreement with a warrant holder whereby the parties agreed to reduce a portion of the number of warrants held by the warrant holder. Given that the November 2014 amendment agreement contained a conditional obligation that required settlement in cash, and the Company's obligation was indexed to the Company's share price, the Company reclassified the estimated fair value of the warrants from additional paid-in capital to a liability in November 2014. See Note 11. 
   
  14. Long-Term Incentive Plans 
  During 2000, the Company established the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2000 Long-Term Incentive Plan which, as amended and restated and approved by the Company's shareholders (the "2000 Incentive Plan"), provided for the issuance of up to   35,397,043   shares of Common Stock in respect of awards, in addition to any shares subject to awards that were returned to the 2000 Incentive Plan upon expiration, forfeiture, surrender, exchange, cancellation, or termination of previously granted awards.  
  During 2014, the Company established, and the Company's shareholders approved, the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 2014 Long-Term Incentive Plan (the "2014 Incentive Plan"). As of the shareholder approval date, the 2014 Incentive Plan provides for the issuance of up to   16,485,333   shares of Common Stock in respect of awards (including   4,485,333   shares of Common Stock rolled over into the 2014 Incentive Plan from the 2000 Incentive Plan), which were registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission, in addition to any shares subject to awards under the 2000 Incentive Plan or the 2014 Incentive Plan that are added to the pool of shares available for grant under the 2014 Incentive Plan upon the expiration, forfeiture, surrender, exchange, cancellation, or termination of previously granted awards. Employees of the Company, including officers, and nonemployees, including consultants and nonemployee members of the Company's board of directors (collectively, "Participants"), may receive awards as determined by a committee of independent directors ("Committee").  
  The awards that may be made under the 2014 Incentive Plan include: (a) Incentive Stock Options ("ISOs") and Nonqualified Stock Options, (b) shares of Restricted Stock, (c) shares of Phantom Stock, (d) Stock Bonuses, and (e) Other Awards.  
  Stock Option awards grant Participants the right to purchase shares of Common Stock at prices determined by the Committee; however, in the case of an ISO, the option exercise price may not be less than the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date the option is granted. Options vest over a period of time determined by the Committee, generally on a pro rata basis over a   three  - to   four  -year period. The Committee also determines the expiration date of each option; however, no ISO is exercisable more than   ten   years after the date of grant. The maximum term of options that have been awarded under the 2000 Incentive Plan or 2014 Incentive Plan (collectively, the "Incentive Plans") is   ten   years. 
  Restricted Stock awards grant Participants shares of restricted Common Stock or allow Participants to purchase such shares at a price determined by the Committee. Such shares are nontransferable for a period determined by the Committee ("vesting period"). Should employment terminate, as specified in the Incentive Plans, except as determined by the Committee in its discretion and subject to the applicable Incentive Plan documents, the ownership of any unvested Restricted Stock will be transferred to the Company. In such an event, the Company will be obligated to repay the Participant the amount, if any, paid by the Participant for such shares. In addition, if the Company requires a return of the Restricted Stock, it also has the right to require a return of all dividends paid on such shares. 
  
   F- 39 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Phantom Stock awards provide the Participant the right to receive, within   30   days of the date on which the share vests, an amount, in cash and/or shares of Common Stock as determined by the Committee, equal to the sum of the fair market value of a share of Common Stock on the date such share of Phantom Stock vests and the aggregate amount of cash dividends paid with respect to a share of Common Stock during the period from the grant date of the share of Phantom Stock to the date on which the share vests. Stock Bonus awards are bonuses payable in shares of Common Stock which are granted at the discretion of the Committee. 
  Other Awards are other forms of awards which are valued based on the Common Stock. Subject to the provisions of the 2014 Incentive Plan, the terms and provisions of such Other Awards are determined solely on the authority of the Committee. 
  The Incentive Plans contain provisions that allow for the Committee to provide for the immediate vesting of awards upon a change in control of the Company, as defined in the Plans. 
  As of December 31,   2016  , there were   6,408,989   shares available for future grants under the 2014 Incentive Plan. No additional awards may be made under the 2000 Incentive Plan. 
           a.  
    Stock Options 
     Transactions involving stock option awards during   2016   under the Company's Incentive Plans are summarized in the table below.   

The Company satisfies stock option exercises with newly issued shares of the Company's Common Stock. The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   was   $550.4 million  ,   $1,031.6 million  , and   $1,081.2 million  , respectively. The intrinsic value represents the amount by which the market price of the underlying stock exceeds the exercise price of an option.  
  
   F- 40 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

The Company grants stock options with exercise prices that are equal to or greater than the average market price of the Company's Common Stock on the date of grant ("Market Price"). The table below summarizes the weighted-average exercise prices and weighted-average grant-date fair values of options issued during the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  . The fair value of each option granted under the Company's Incentive Plans during these periods was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option-pricing model.      

For the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , the Company recognized   $546.0 million  ,   $443.7 million  , and   $306.1 million  , respectively, of non-cash stock-based compensation expense related to non-performance based stock option awards. As of December 31,   2016  , there was   $888.0 million   of stock-based compensation cost related to outstanding non-performance based stock options, net of estimated forfeitures, which had not yet been recognized. The Company expects to recognize this compensation cost over a weighted-average period of   1.9   years.   
  For the year ended December 31,   2014  , the Company recognized   $4.1 million   of non-cash stock-based compensation expense related to performance-based options. The Company has not issued any performance-based options since 2011, and such options became fully vested during 2014.  
  Fair Value Assumptions: 
  The following table summarizes the weighted average values of the assumptions used in computing the fair value of option grants during 2016, 2015, and 2014. 

Expected volatility has been estimated based on actual movements in the Company's stock price over the most recent historical periods equivalent to the options' expected lives. Expected lives are principally based on the Company's historical exercise experience with previously issued employee and board of directors' option grants. The expected dividend yield is   zero   as the Company has never paid dividends and does not currently anticipate paying any in the foreseeable future. The risk-free interest rates are based on quoted U.S. Treasury rates for securities with maturities approximating the options' expected lives.   
  
   F- 41 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

b.  
    Restricted Stock 
     A summary of the Company's activity related to Restricted Stock awards during   2016   is summarized below: 

The Company recognized non-cash stock-based compensation expense from Restricted Stock awards of   $13.9 million  ,   $15.3 million  , and   $11.5 million   in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. As of December 31, 2016, there was   $26.0 million   of stock-based compensation cost related to unvested shares of Restricted Stock which had not yet been recognized. The Company expects to recognize this compensation cost over a weighted-average period of   1.2   years. 
   
  15. Employee Savings Plans 
  The Company maintains the Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 401(k) Savings Plan (the "Savings Plan"). The terms of the Savings Plan, as amended and restated, allow U.S. employees (as defined by the Savings Plan) to contribute to the Savings Plan a percentage of their compensation. In addition, the Company may make discretionary contributions ("Contribution"), as defined, to the accounts of participants under the Savings Plan. The Company recognized   $17.7 million  ,   $15.4 million  , and   $13.1 million   of Contribution expense in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively.  
  In 2014, the Regeneron Ireland Pension Plan (the "Ireland Plan"), a defined contribution occupational pension plan which covers all eligible Ireland-based employees (as defined by the Ireland Plan), was established. Contributions to the Ireland Plan are comprised of two components: (i) a minimum mandatory employee and employer contribution rate, and (ii) a matching scheme, whereby the Company will match employee contributions up to a certain percentage. Employees can make additional voluntary contributions to the Ireland Plan. Expenses related to the Company's contributions to the Ireland Plan were not material during 2016, 2015, and 2014. 
  
   F- 42 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

16. Income Taxes  
  The Company is subject to U.S. federal, state, and foreign income taxes. Components of income before income taxes consist of the following:  

Components of income tax expense consist of the following:  

In 2015 and 2014, the Company utilized   $405.3 million   and   $439.3 million   of excess tax benefits in connection with stock option exercises, which were credited to additional paid-in capital as realized. The Company elected to early adopt ASU 2016-09 during the second quarter of 2016. Consequently, in 2016, the Company recorded excess tax benefits of   $144.8 million   within income tax expense. See Note 1. "Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies -   Recently Issued Accounting Standards.  " 
  The Company also recorded an income tax benefit in its Statement of Comprehensive Income of   $3.3 million   during the year ended December 31, 2016 and an income tax provision of   $24.9 million   and   $27.1 million   during the years ended December 31, 2015 and 2014, respectively, primarily related to unrealized gains (losses) on available-for-sale marketable securities.  
  
   F- 43 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

A reconciliation of the U.S. statutory income tax rate to the Company's effective income tax rate is as follows: 

In 2016, the difference between the U.S. federal statutory rate of   35%   and the Company's effective tax rate of   32.7%   was primarily attributable to the tax benefit associated with stock-based compensation, the domestic manufacturing deduction, and the federal tax credit for research activities, offset by the negative impact of losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions with rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate and the non-tax deductible Branded Prescription Drug Fee.  
  In 2015, the difference between the U.S. federal statutory rate of   35%   and the Company's effective tax rate of   48.1%   was primarily attributable to losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions with rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate, partly offset by the positive impact of the domestic manufacturing deduction.  
  In 2014, the difference between the U.S. federal statutory rate of   35%   and the Company's effective tax rate of   55.6%   was primarily attributable to losses incurred in foreign jurisdictions with rates lower than the U.S. federal statutory rate and the non-deductible Branded Prescription Drug Fee, partly offset by the positive impact of the federal tax credit for increased research activities and state income tax credits.  
  
   F- 44 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Deferred income taxes reflect the net tax effects of temporary differences between the carrying amounts of assets and liabilities for financial reporting purposes and the amounts used for income tax purposes. Significant components of the Company's deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: 

The Company's 2012 through 2015 federal income tax returns remain open to examination by the IRS. The Company's 2012 federal income tax return is currently under audit by the IRS. The Company's state income tax returns from 2013 to 2015 remain open to examination. The Department of Revenue of the Commonwealth of Pennsylvania is currently auditing the Company's 2013 and 2014 tax returns  .   The United States and many states generally have statutes of limitation ranging from 3 to 5 years; however, those statutes could be extended due to the Company's net operating loss and tax credit carryforward positions in a number of the Company's tax jurisdictions. In general, tax authorities have the ability to review income tax returns for loss periods in which the statute of limitation has previously expired to adjust the net operating loss carryforward or tax credits generated in those years. 
  The following table summarizes the gross amounts of unrecognized tax benefits. The amount of unrecognized tax benefits that, if settled, would impact the effective tax rate is   $107.2 million  ,   $102.1 million  , and   $51.2 million   as of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 

F- 45 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

In 2016 and 2015, the increases in unrecognized tax benefits related primarily to the Company's calculation of certain tax credits and other items related to the Company's international operations. In 2014, the decreases in unrecognized tax benefits resulted from the settlement of the IRS audit of the 2011 tax year and the New York State audit of the 2009 to 2011 tax years, as well as the reduction in the New York state income tax rate. In 2016, the Company accrued interest of   $3.3 million   related to its unrecognized tax benefits. In 2015 and 2014, accrued interest related to unrecognized tax benefits recorded by the Company was not material. The Company believes that it is reasonably possible that its unrecognized tax benefits as of December 31, 2016 may decrease by up to   $22.3 million   within the next twelve months related to the resolution of state tax exposures.  
   
  17. Legal Matters 
  From time to time, the Company is a party to legal proceedings in the course of the Company's business.   Costs associated with the Company's involvement in legal proceedings are expensed as incurred.   The outcome of any such proceedings, regardless of the merits, is inherently uncertain. If the Company were unable to prevail in any such proceedings, its consolidated financial position, results of operations, and future cash flows may be materially impacted. 
  Proceedings Relating to '287 Patent, '163 Patent, and '018 Patent 
  The Company is a party to patent infringement litigation initiated by the Company involving its European Patent No. 1,360,287 (the "'287 Patent"), its European Patent No. 2,264,163 (the "'163 Patent"), and its U.S. Patent No. 8,502,018 (the "'018 Patent"). Each of these patents concerns genetically engineered mice capable of producing chimeric antibodies that are part human and part mouse. Chimeric antibody sequences can be used to produce high-affinity fully human monoclonal antibodies. In these proceedings, the Company claims infringement of several claims of the '287 Patent, the '163 Patent, and the '018 Patent (as applicable), and seeks, among other types of relief, an injunction and an account of profits in connection with the defendants' infringing acts, which may include, among other things, the making, use, keeping, sale, or offer for sale of genetically engineered mice (or certain cells from which they are derived) that infringe one or more claims of the '287 Patent, the '163 Patent, and the '018 Patent (as applicable). At this time, the Company is not able to predict the outcome of, or estimate possible gain or a range of possible loss, if any, related to, these proceedings. 
  Proceedings Relating to Praluent (alirocumab) Injection 
  As described in greater detail below, the Company is currently a party to patent infringement actions initiated by Amgen Inc. against the Company and Sanofi (and/or the Company's and Sanofi's respective affiliated entities) in a number of jurisdictions relating to Praluent, which the Company is jointly developing and commercializing with Sanofi. 
  In the United States, Amgen has asserted a number of U.S. patents, which were subsequently narrowed to U.S. Patent Nos. 8,829,165 (the "'165 Patent") and 8,859,741 (the "'741 Patent"), and seeks a permanent injunction to prevent the Company and the Sanofi defendants from manufacturing, using, offering to sell, or selling within the United States (as well as importing into the United States) (collectively, "Commercializing") Praluent. Amgen also seeks a judgment of patent infringement of  the asserted patents, monetary damages (together with interest), costs and expenses of the lawsuits, and attorneys' fees. A jury trial in this litigation was held in the United States District Court for the District of Delaware from March 8 to March 16, 2016. During the course of the trial, the court ruled as a matter of law in favor of Amgen that the asserted patent claims were not obvious, and in favor of the Company and the Sanofi defendants that there was no willful infringement of the asserted patent claims by the Company or the Sanofi defendants. On March 16, 2016, the jury returned a verdict in favor of Amgen, finding that the asserted claims of the '165 and '741 Patents were not invalid based on either a lack of written description or a lack of enablement. On January 3, 2017, the court issued a final opinion and judgment, denying the Company and the Sanofi defendants' motions for new trial and judgment as a matter of law. The court also denied as moot Amgen's motion to strike the Company and the Sanofi defendants' request to obtain a judgment as a matter of law, which allows the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit to address the Company and the Sanofi defendants' patent invalidity arguments on appeal. On January 12, 2017, the Company and the Sanofi defendants filed a notice of appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit. On January 18, 2017, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit ordered an expedited briefing schedule of the appeal on the merits, pursuant to which the briefing is scheduled to be completed no later than March 31, 2017. On January 31, 2017, Amgen filed a motion with the United States District Court for the District of Delaware to amend the court's final judgment to include an award of supplemental damages (including interest) and enhancement of such damages following the resolution of the appeal. 
  
   F- 46 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

On March 23 and March 24, 2016, the United States District Court for the District of Delaware held a permanent injunction hearing to determine whether Regeneron and the Sanofi defendants should be prohibited from Commercializing Praluent in the United States. On January 5, 2017, the court granted the permanent injunction but delayed its imposition for 30 days (subsequently extended to 45 days) from the date of grant (i.e., until February 21, 2017). On January 13, 2017, the Company and the Sanofi defendants filed an emergency motion for stay of the permanent injunction pending appeal with the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Federal Circuit; and, on February 8, 2017, the court granted the stay pending appeal. 
  On July 25, 2016, Amgen filed a lawsuit against Regeneron, Sanofi-Aventis Groupe S.A., Sanofi-Synthelabo Limited, Aventis Pharma Limited, Sanofi Winthrop Industrie S.A., and Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH in the English High Court of Justice, Chancery Division, Patents Court, in London, seeking a declaration of infringement of Amgen's European Patent No. 2,215,124 (the "'124 Patent"), which pertains to PCSK9 monoclonal antibodies, by Praluent. The lawsuit also seeks a permanent injunction, damages, an accounting of profits, and costs and interest. On February 8, 2017, the court temporarily stayed this litigation on terms mutually agreed by the parties. 
  Also on July 25, 2016, Amgen filed a lawsuit for infringement of the '124 Patent against Regeneron, Sanofi-Aventis Groupe S.A., Sanofi Winthrop Industrie S.A., and Sanofi-Aventis Deutschland GmbH in the Regional Court of D sseldorf, Germany, seeking a permanent injunction, an accounting of marketing activities, a recall of Praluent and its removal from distribution channels, and damages. Oral hearing on this infringement lawsuit is currently scheduled for October 19, 2017. 
  On September 26, 2016, Amgen filed a lawsuit for infringement of the '124 Patent in the Tribunal de grande instance in Paris, France against Regeneron, Sanofi-Aventis Groupe S.A., and Sanofi Winthrop Industrie. Amgen is seeking the prohibition of allegedly infringing activities with a    10,000   penalty per drug unit of Praluent produced in violation of the court order sought by Amgen; an appointment of an expert for the assessment of damages; disclosure of technical (including supply-chain) and accounting information to the expert and the court; provisional damages of    10.0 million   (which would be awarded on an interim basis pending final determination); reimbursement of costs; publication of the ruling in three newspapers; and provisional enforcement of the decision to be issued, which would ensure enforcement of the decision (including any provisional damages) pending appeal. Amgen is not seeking a preliminary injunction in this proceeding at this time.  
  At this time, the Company is not able to predict the outcome of, or estimate a range of possible loss, if any, related to these proceedings. 
  Proceedings Relating to Patents Owned by Genentech and City of Hope 
  On July 27, 2015, the Company and Sanofi-Aventis U.S. LLC ("Sanofi-Aventis") filed a complaint in the United States District Court for the Central District of California (Western Division) seeking a declaratory judgment of invalidity, as well as non-infringement by the manufacture, use, sale, offer of sale, or importation of Praluent, of U.S. Patent No. 7,923,221 (the "'221 Patent") jointly owned by Genentech, Inc. ("Genentech") and City of Hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies by host cells. On the same day, the Company and Sanofi-Aventis initiated an inter partes review in the United States Patent and Trademark Office ("USPTO") seeking a declaration of invalidity of certain claims of U.S. Patent No. 6,331,415 (the "'415 Patent" and, together, with the "221 Patent", the "Cabilly Patents") jointly owned by Genentech and City of Hope relating to the production of recombinant antibodies by host cells. On February 5, 2016, the USPTO instituted an inter partes review of the validity of most of the patent claims of the '415 Patent for which review had been requested. On August 18, 2016, Regeneron and Sanofi-Aventis entered into a License and Settlement Agreement with Genentech and City of Hope that resolved all outstanding issues concerning the Cabilly Patents in the above-referenced litigation and inter partes review proceeding, resulting in a joint stipulation of dismissal being entered in the court and the USPTO. Under the agreement, Regeneron has been granted a license to the Cabilly Patents to make, use, and sell Praluent and all other antibody products under development at the time of the settlement. 
  
   F- 47 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

Proceedings Relating to Shareholder Derivative Claims 
  On December 30, 2015, an alleged shareholder filed a shareholder derivative complaint in the New York Supreme Court, naming the current and certain former non-employee members of the Company's board of directors, the Chairman of the board of directors, the Company's Chief Executive Officer, and the Company's Chief Scientific Officer as defendants and Regeneron as a nominal defendant. The complaint asserts that the individual defendants breached their fiduciary duties and were unjustly enriched when they approved and/or received allegedly excessive compensation in 2013 and 2014. The complaint seeks damages in favor of the Company for the alleged breaches of fiduciary duties and unjust enrichment; changes to Regeneron's corporate governance and internal procedures; invalidation of the 2014 Incentive Plan with respect to the individual defendants' compensation and a shareholder vote regarding the individual defendants' equity compensation; equitable relief, including an equitable accounting with disgorgement; and award of the costs of the action, including attorneys' fees. On March 2, 2016, the defendants filed a motion to dismiss the shareholder derivative complaint. On August 16, 2016, the court heard oral argument on defendants' motion to dismiss. 
  On or about December 15, 2015, the Company received a shareholder litigation demand upon the Company's board of directors made by a purported Regeneron shareholder. The demand asserts that the current and certain former non-employee members of the board of directors and the Chairman of the board of directors excessively compensated themselves in 2013 and 2014. The demand requests that the board of directors investigate and bring legal action against these directors for breach of fiduciary duty, unjust enrichment, and corporate waste, and implement internal controls and systems designed to prohibit and prevent similar actions in the future. The Company's board of directors, working with outside counsel, investigated the allegations in the demand and the shareholder derivative complaint, and has determined to defer its decision on the demand until the court rules on the pending motion to dismiss the shareholder derivative complaint, as discussed above. 
  At this time, the Company is not able to predict the outcome of, or estimate a range of possible loss, if any, relating to these matters.  
  Department of Justice Investigation  
  In January 2017, the Company received a subpoena from the U.S. Attorney's Office for the District of Massachusetts requesting documents relating to its support of 501(c)(3) organizations that provide financial assistance to patients; documents concerning its provision of financial assistance to patients with respect to products sold or developed by Regeneron (including EYLEA, Praluent, ARCALYST, and ZALTRAP); and certain other related documents and communications. The Company is cooperating with this investigation. The Company cannot predict the outcome or duration of these investigations or any other legal proceedings or any enforcement actions or other remedies that may be imposed on the Company arising out of these investigations.  
  
   F- 48 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

18. Net Income Per Share  
  The Company's basic net income per share amounts have been computed by dividing net income by the weighted average number of shares of Common Stock and Class A Stock outstanding. Net income per share is presented on a combined basis, inclusive of Common Stock and Class A Stock outstanding, as each class of stock has equivalent economic rights. Diluted net income per share includes the potential dilutive effect of other securities as if such securities were converted or exercised during the period, when the effect is dilutive. The calculations of basic and diluted net income per share are as follows: 

Shares which have been excluded from diluted per share amounts because their effect would have been antidilutive, include the following: 

19. Statement of Cash Flows 
  Supplemental disclosure of non-cash investing and financing activities: 
  Included in accounts payable and accrued expenses as of December 31, 2016, 2015, and 2014 were   $28.2 million  ,   $50.7 million  , and   $56.2 million  , respectively, of accrued capital expenditures.  
  Included in accounts payable and accrued expenses as of December 31, 2014 was   $59.8 million   related to the Company's payment obligation for a reduction in the number of warrants based on a warrant holder closing out a portion of its hedge position (see Note 11). Additionally, included within other current liabilities as of December 31, 2014 was   $87.5 million   in connection with the estimated fair value of the remaining warrant liability (see Note 11). There were   no   such liabilities recorded in connection with warrants as of December 31, 2016 and 2015. 
  
   F- 49 

Table of Contents  
    
  REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS (Continued) 
  (Unless otherwise noted, dollars in thousands, except per share data) 

The Company recognized an additional facility lease obligation of   $16.8 million  ,   $26.0 million  , and   $127.8 million   during 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively, in connection with capitalizing, on the Company's books, the landlord's costs of constructing new facilities that the Company has leased (see Note 12a). In addition, during 2016, the Company recognized capital lease obligations of   $138.1 million   in connection with the modification of the Company's Tarrytown Leases (see Note 12a). 
   
  20. Unaudited Quarterly Results 
  Summarized quarterly financial data for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015 are set forth in the following tables.   

*       Due to the adoption of ASU 2016-09, the Company revised its net income from the amounts originally reported for the quarterly period ended March 31, 2016 to include a   $15.6 million   income tax benefit, which was originally recorded as additional paid-in capital.  

F- 50 

<EX-10.20.4>
 2
 regn-ex_10204xgoldmansachs.htm
 GOLDMAN SACHS TERMINATION AGREEMENT, BY AND BETWEEN GOLDMAN SACHS AND REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.20.4 

________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
    
  Dear Sir/Madam: 
    
  Goldman, Sachs   Co. (   GS Co.   ) and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (   Issuer   ) are parties to a warrant transaction (the    Transaction   ) evidenced by the Master Terms and Conditions for Base Warrants Issued by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated as of October 18, 2011, supplemented by the written confirmation dated as of October 18, 2011 and amended by the Amendment dated as of May 15, 2014, the Second Amendment dated as of November 25, 2014 and the Third Amendment dated as of February 27, 2015 (as so supplemented and amended, the    Confirmation   ).  Terms used herein but are not otherwise defined shall have meanings assigned to them in the Confirmation. 
    
  1.    Termination  .  
    
  (a) Effective on the date hereof, the Number of Warrants for each Component of the Transaction shall be reduced to zero, and the Transaction, and the respective rights and obligations of each party hereto under the Transaction, shall be terminated, cancelled and extinguished and deemed to have been satisfied and discharged in full, the only remaining obligation of the parties with respect to such Transaction shall be the obligation of Counterparty to make the Termination Payments as set forth below, and no other payments or deliveries shall be due to or from either Dealer or Counterparty pursuant to the terms of the Confirmation with respect to such Warrants; and each party hereto shall be released and forever discharged by each other party hereto from obligations under the Transaction and the Confirmation with respect to such Warrants, other than with respect to representations and warranties set forth in the Confirmation and with respect to indemnification or contribution obligations under the Confirmation arising as a result of events occurring prior to the date hereof, each of which shall survive.   
    
  (b) In consideration of the termination of the Transaction as provided herein, Issuer agrees to pay to GS Co. on the Payment Dates set forth below the respective amount in USD set forth below (the    Termination Payments   ). 

2.   Representations and Warranties. 
    
  (a) Each party represents to the other party that: 
    
  (i) It is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing. 
    
  (ii) It has the power to execute this agreement and any other documentation relating to this agreement to which it is a party, to deliver this agreement and any other documentation relating to this agreement that it is required by this agreement to deliver and to perform its obligations under this agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance. 
    
  (iii) Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets. 
    
  (iv) All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to this agreement have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with. 
    
  (v) Its obligations under this agreement constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)). 
    
  (b) Issuer represents and warrants to and for the benefit of     GS Co. as follows: 
    
  (i) (A) On the date hereof, Issuer is not aware of any material non-public information regarding Issuer or the Shares and (B) its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, taken together with all reports and other documents  

subsequently filed by Issuer with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the    Exchange Act   ), when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. 
    
  (ii) On the date hereof and on each Payment Date and the Termination Payment Date, (A) the assets of Issuer at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of Issuer, including contingent liabilities, (B) the capital of Issuer is adequate to conduct the business of Issuer and (C) Issuer has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature. 
    
  (iii) Issuer acknowledges its responsibilities under applicable federal securities laws, including, without limitation, Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act, in relation to the Transaction and this agreement. 
    
  4.    Counterparts  . This agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
    
  5.    Governing Law  . The provisions of this agreement shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine). 

Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this agreement and returning it in the manner indicated in the attached cover letter.  

GOLDMAN, SACHS   CO. 

By: 
    /s/Daniela A. Rouse 
      Name: 
    Daniela A. Rouse 
      Title: 
    Vice President 

Agreed and Accepted By: 

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

By: 
    /s/Dominick Agron 
      Name: 
    Dominick Agron 
      Title: 
    Vice President and Treasurer 

</EX-10.20.4>

<EX-10.22.3>
 3
 regn-ex_10223xciti3rdwarra.htm
 CITI 3RD WARRANT AGREEMENT, BY AND BETWEEN CITI AND REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.22.3 

__________________________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
    
  Dear Sir/Madam: 
    
  Citibank, N.A. (   Citi   ) and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (   Issuer   ) are parties to a warrant transaction (the    Transaction   ) evidenced by the Master Terms and Conditions for Base Warrants Issued by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated as of October 18, 2011, supplemented by the written confirmation dated as of October 18, 2011 and amended by the Amendment dated as of May 13, 2014 and the Second Amendment dated as of February 22, 2016 (as so supplemented and amended, the    Confirmation   ). Terms used herein but are not otherwise defined shall have meanings assigned to them in the Confirmation. 
    
  Upon the effectiveness of this Amendment, all references in the Confirmation to the  Number of Warrants  will be deemed to be to the Number of Warrants as amended hereby and all references in the Confirmation to the  Transaction  will be deemed to be to the Transaction as amended hereby. 
    
  1.   Amendments  . Effective upon payment of each Amendment Payment on the applicable Payment Date (each as defined below), the Number of Warrants for each Component of the Transaction shall be reduced by 1/80   th    of the corresponding Applicable Number of Warrants (as defined below), with each such Number of Warrants rounded up to the nearest whole number, except that the Number of Warrants for the Component with the latest Expiration Date shall be reduced by the aggregate number resulting from such rounding. 
    
  2.   Amendment Payment  . In consideration of the amendment of the Transaction, Issuer agrees to pay to Citi on each Payment Date an amount in USD equal to the Amendment Payment corresponding to such Payment Date, as set forth below. 

3.   Representations and Warranties. 
    
  (a) Each party represents to the other party that: 
    
  (i) It is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing. 
    
  (ii) It has the power to execute this Amendment and any other documentation relating to this Amendment to which it is a party, to deliver this Amendment and any other documentation relating to this Amendment that it is required by this Amendment to deliver and to perform its obligations under this Amendment and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance. 
    
  (iii) Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets. 
    
  (iv) All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to this Amendment have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with. 
    
  (v) Its obligations under this Amendment constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)). 
    
  (b) Issuer represents and warrants to and for the benefit of Citi as follows: 
    
  (i) (A) On the date hereof, Issuer is not aware of any material non-public information regarding Issuer or the Shares and (B) its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, taken together with all reports and other documents subsequently filed by Issuer with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the    Exchange Act   ), when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), does not contain any  

untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. 
    
  (ii) On the date hereof and on each Payment Date, (A) the assets of Issuer at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of Issuer, including contingent liabilities, (B) the capital of Issuer is adequate to conduct the business of Issuer and (C) Issuer has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature. 
    
  (iii) Issuer acknowledges its responsibilities under applicable federal securities laws, including, without limitation, Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act, in relation to the Transaction and its amendment, and Issuer is entering into this Amendment in good faith and not as a part of a plan or scheme to evade compliance with the federal securities laws. 
    
  4.   No Additional Amendments or Waivers  . Except as amended hereby, all the terms of the Transaction and provisions in the Confirmation shall remain and continue in full force and effect and are hereby confirmed in all respects. 
    
  5.   Counterparts  . This Amendment may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
    
  6.   Governing Law  . The provisions of this Amendment shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine). 

Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this Amendment and returning it in the manner indicated in the attached cover letter. 

CITIBANK, N.A. 

By: 
    /s/Herman Hirsch 
      Name: 
    Herman Hirsch 
      Title: 
    Authorized Representative 

Agreed and Accepted By: 

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

By: 
    /s/Dominick Agron 
      Name: 
    Dominick Agron 
      Title: 
    Vice President and Treasurer 

</EX-10.22.3>

<EX-10.22.4>
 4
 regn-ex_10224xcititerminat.htm
 CITI TERMINATION AGREEMENT, BY AND BETWEEN CITI AND REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.22.4 

__________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
    
  Dear Sir/Madam: 
    
  Citibank, N.A. (   Citi   ) and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (   Issuer   ) are parties to a warrant transaction (the    Transaction   ) evidenced by the Master Terms and Conditions for Base Warrants Issued by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated as of October 18, 2011, supplemented by the written confirmation dated as of October 18, 2011 and amended by the Amendment dated as of May 13, 2014, the Second Amendment dated as of February 22, 2016 and the Third Amendment dated as of November 10, 2016 (as so supplemented and amended, the    Confirmation   ).  Terms used herein but are not otherwise defined shall have meanings assigned to them in the Confirmation. 
    
  1.   Termination  . Effective upon payment of the Termination Payment on the Payment Date (each as defined below), the Number of Warrants for each Component of the Transaction shall be reduced to zero, and the Confirmation shall be of no further force and effect. 
    
  2.   Termination Payment  . In consideration of the termination of the Transaction as provided herein, Issuer agrees to pay to Citi on the Payment Date the amount in USD set forth below (the    Termination Payment   ). 

3.   Representations and Warranties. 
    
  (a) Each party represents to the other party that: 
    
  (i) It is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing. 

(ii) It has the power to execute this agreement and any other documentation relating to this agreement to which it is a party, to deliver this agreement and any other documentation relating to this agreement that it is required by this agreement to deliver and to perform its obligations under this agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance. 
    
  (iii) Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets. 
    
  (iv) All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to this agreement have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with. 
    
  (v) Its obligations under this agreement constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)). 
    
  (b) Issuer represents and warrants to and for the benefit of Citi as follows: 
    
  (i) (A) On the date hereof, Issuer is not aware of any material non-public information regarding Issuer or the Shares and (B) its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, taken together with all reports and other documents subsequently filed by Issuer with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the    Exchange Act   ), when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. 
    
  (ii) On the date hereof and on the Payment Date, (A) the assets of Issuer at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of Issuer, including contingent liabilities, (B) the capital of Issuer is adequate to conduct the business of Issuer and (C) Issuer has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature. 
    
  (iii) Issuer acknowledges its responsibilities under applicable federal securities laws, including, without limitation, Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act, in relation to the Transaction and this agreement, and Issuer is entering into this agreement in good faith and not as part of a plan or scheme to evade compliance with the federal securities laws. 
    
  4.   Counterparts  . This agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
    
  6.   Governing Law  . The provisions of this agreement shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine). 

3 

Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this agreement and returning it in the manner indicated in the attached cover letter.     
    
                 CITIBANK, N.A. 

By: 
    /s/James Heathcote 
        
    Name: James Heathcote 
        
    Title: Authorized Signatory 

Agreed and Accepted By: 

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

By: 
    /s/Dominick Agron 
        
    Name: Dominick Agron 
        
    Title: Vice President   Treasurer 

4 

</EX-10.22.4>

<EX-10.24.5>
 5
 regn-ex_10245xcreditsuisse.htm
 CREDIT SUISSE TERMINATION AGREEMENT, BY AND BETWEEN CREDIT SUISSE AND REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.24.5 

_____________________________________________________________________________________________________________ 
    
  Dear Sir/Madam: 
    
  Credit Suisse Capital LLC (   CS   ) and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (   Issuer   ) are parties to a warrant transaction pursuant to a November 13, 2013 assignment by Credit Suisse International, an affiliate of Dealer, to CS of such warrant transaction.  The warrant transaction is evidenced by the Master Terms and Conditions for Base Warrants Issued by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated as of October 18, 2011, supplemented by the written confirmation dated as of October 18, 2011 and amended by the Amendment dated as of May 14, 2014, the Second Amendment dated as of November 18, 2014, the Third Amendment Dated as of November 24, 2014 and the Fourth Amendment dated as of November 15, 2015 (as so amended, the    Confirmation   ).  Terms used herein but are not otherwise defined shall have meanings assigned to them in the Confirmation. 
    
  1.   Termination  . Effective upon payment of the Termination Payment on the Payment Date (each as defined below), the Number of Warrants for each Component of the Transaction shall be reduced to zero, and the Confirmation shall be of no further force and effect. 
    
  2.   Termination Payment  . In consideration of the termination of the Transaction as provided herein, Issuer agrees to pay to CS on the Payment Date the amount in USD set forth below (the    Termination Payment   ). 

3.   Representations and Warranties. 
    
  (a) Each party represents to the other party that: 

(i) It is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing. 
    
  (ii) It has the power to execute this agreement and any other documentation relating to this agreement to which it is a party, to deliver this agreement and any other documentation relating to this agreement that it is required by this agreement to deliver and to perform its obligations under this agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance. 
    
  (iii) Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets. 
    
  (iv) All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to this agreement have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with. 
    
  (v) Its obligations under this agreement constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)). 
    
  (b) Issuer represents and warrants to and for the benefit of CS as follows: 
    
  (i) (A) On the date hereof, Issuer is not aware of any material non-public information regarding Issuer or the Shares and (B) its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, taken together with all reports and other documents subsequently filed by Issuer with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the    Exchange Act   ), when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. 
    
  (ii) On the date hereof and on the Payment Date, (A) the assets of Issuer at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of Issuer, including contingent liabilities, (B) the capital of Issuer is adequate to conduct the business of Issuer and (C) Issuer has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature. 
    
  (iii) Issuer acknowledges its responsibilities under applicable federal securities laws, including, without limitation, Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act, in relation to the Transaction and this agreement. 
    
  4.   Counterparts  . This agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
    
  6.   Governing Law  . The provisions of this agreement shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine). 

Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this agreement and returning it in the manner indicated in the attached cover letter.   
    
                 CREDIT SUISSE CAPITAL LLC 

By: 
    /s/Carole Villoresi 
        
    Name: Carole Villoresi 
        
    Title: Authorized Signatory 

By: 
    /s/Shui Wong 
        
    Name: Shui Wong 
        
    Title: Authorized Signatory 

CREDIT SUISSE SECURITIES (USA) LLC, as agent for Credit Suisse Capital LLC 

By: 
    /s/Carole Villoresi 
        
    Name: Carole Villoresi 
        
    Title: Vice President 

Agreed and Accepted By: 

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

By: 
    /s/Dominick Agron 
        
    Name: Dominick Agron 
        
    Title: Vice President   Treasurer 

</EX-10.24.5>

<EX-10.26.3>
 6
 regn-ex_10263xmorganstanle.htm
 MORGAN STANLEY TERMINATION AGREEMENT, BY AND BETWEEN MORGAN STANLEY & REGISTRANT

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.26.3 

_____________________________________________________________________________________________               
  Dear Sir/Madam: 
    
  Morgan Stanley   Co. International plc (   Morgan Stanley   ) and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (   Issuer   ) are parties to a warrant transaction evidenced by the Master Terms and Conditions for Base Warrants Issued by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. dated as of October 18, 2011, supplemented by the written confirmation dated as of October 18, 2011 and amended by the Amendment, dated as of May 16, 2014, and the Second Amendment, dated as of August 5, 2015 (as amended through the date hereof, the    Confirmation   ).  Terms used herein but are not otherwise defined shall have meanings assigned to them in the Confirmation. 
    
  1.   Termination  . Effective upon payment of the Termination Payment on the Payment Date (each as defined below), the Number of Warrants for each Component of the Transaction shall be reduced to zero, and the Confirmation shall be of no further force and effect. 
    
  2.   Termination Payment  . In consideration of the termination of the Transaction as provided herein, Issuer agrees to pay to Morgan Stanley on the Payment Date the amount in USD set forth below (the    Termination Payment   ). 

3.   Representations and Warranties. 
    
  (a) Each party represents to the other party that: 
    
  (i) It is duly organized and validly existing under the laws of the jurisdiction of its organization or incorporation and, if relevant under such laws, in good standing. 
    
  (ii) It has the power to execute this agreement and any other documentation relating to this agreement to which it is a party, to deliver this agreement and any other documentation relating to this agreement that it is required by this agreement to deliver and to perform its obligations under this agreement and has taken all necessary action to authorize such execution, delivery and performance. 
    
  (iii) Such execution, delivery and performance do not violate or conflict with any law applicable to it, any provision of its constitutional documents, any order or judgment of any court or other agency of government applicable to it or any of its assets or any contractual restriction binding on or affecting it or any of its assets. 

(iv) All governmental and other consents that are required to have been obtained by it with respect to this agreement have been obtained and are in full force and effect and all conditions of any such consents have been complied with. 
    
  (v) Its obligations under this agreement constitute its legal, valid and binding obligations, enforceable in accordance with their respective terms (subject to applicable bankruptcy, reorganization, insolvency, moratorium or similar laws affecting creditors' rights generally and subject, as to enforceability, to equitable principles of general application (regardless of whether enforcement is sought in a proceeding in equity or at law)). 
    
  (b) Issuer represents and warrants to and for the benefit of Morgan Stanley as follows: 
    
  (i) (A) On the date hereof, Issuer is not aware of any material non-public information regarding Issuer or the Shares and (B) its most recent Annual Report on Form 10-K, taken together with all reports and other documents subsequently filed by Issuer with the Securities and Exchange Commission pursuant to the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the    Exchange Act   ), when considered as a whole (with the more recent such reports and documents deemed to amend inconsistent statements contained in any earlier such reports and documents), does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state any material fact required to be stated therein or necessary to make the statements therein, in the light of the circumstances in which they were made, not misleading. 
    
  (ii) On the date hereof and on the Payment Date, (A) the assets of Issuer at their fair valuation exceed the liabilities of Issuer, including contingent liabilities, (B) the capital of Issuer is adequate to conduct the business of Issuer and (C) Issuer has the ability to pay its debts and obligations as such debts mature and does not intend to, or does not believe that it will, incur debt beyond its ability to pay as such debts mature. 
    
  (iii) Issuer acknowledges its responsibilities under applicable federal securities laws, including, without limitation, Rule 10b-5 under the Exchange Act, in relation to the Transaction and this agreement. 
    
  4.   Counterparts  . This agreement may be signed in any number of counterparts, each of which shall be an original, with the same effect as if all of the signatures thereto and hereto were upon the same instrument. 
    
  6.   Governing Law  . The provisions of this agreement shall be governed by the New York law (without reference to choice of law doctrine). 

Please confirm that the foregoing correctly sets forth the terms of our agreement by executing this agreement and returning it in the manner indicated in the attached cover letter.   
    
                 MORGAN STANLEY   CO. INTERNATIONAL PLC 

By: 
    /s/Stefan Ploetscher 
        
    Name: Stefan Ploetscher 
        
    Title: Executive Director 

MORGAN STANLEY   CO. LLC AS AGENT 

By: 
    /s/Christopher Andrews 
        
    Name: Christopher Andrews 
        
    Title: Managing Director 

Agreed and Accepted By: 

REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

By: 
    /s/Dominick Agron 
        
    Name: Dominick Agron 
        
    Title: Vice President   Treasurer 

</EX-10.26.3>

<EX-10.35>
 7
 regn-ex_1035xlandmarkpsaex.htm
 PURCHASE AGREEMENT, BY & AMONG BMR-LANDMARK LLC, BMR-LANDMARK IV LLC, & REGN

Exhibit 

Certain portions of this Exhibit have been omitted pursuant to a request for confidentiality. 
  Such omitted portions, which are marked with brackets and asterisks [****], have been 
  separately filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission. 

Exhibit 10.35 
  Execution Version 

PURCHASE AGREEMENT 
  (Landmark at Eastview, Mount Pleasant and Greenburgh, New York) 
  THIS PURCHASE AGREEMENT (this    Agreement   ) is made and entered into as of December 30, 2016 (the    Effective Date   ), by and among   BMR LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC  , a Delaware limited liability company, and   BMR LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW IV LLC  , a Delaware limited liability company (each, individually, a    Seller    and, collectively,    Sellers   ), and   REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC.  , a New York corporation (   Buyer   ). 
  RECITALS 
  Sellers desire to sell, and Buyer desires to buy, the  Properties  (as hereinafter defined) on the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth.  
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the mutual undertakings of the parties hereto, it is hereby agreed as follows: 
  1. Certain Defined Terms.  As used herein: 
  1.1    Appurtenances    shall mean, as to the  Land  (as hereinafter defined), all easements and licenses benefitting the Land; all streets, alleys, and rights of way, open or proposed, in front of or adjoining or servicing all or any part of the Land; all strips and gores in front of or adjoining all or any part of the Land; all development rights, air rights, wind rights, water, water rights, riparian rights, and water stock relating to the Land; and all other rights, benefits, licenses, interests, privileges, easements, tenements, and hereditaments appurtenant to the Land or used in connection with the beneficial use and enjoyment of the Land or the Improvements in anywise appertaining to the Land or the Improvements. 
  1.2    Closing Date    as defined in Section 5. 
  1.3    Closing Document    shall mean any certificate, instrument, or other document to be executed by a party or an affiliate of a party and delivered at or in connection with the Closing pursuant to this Agreement. 
  1.4    Constituent Property    shall mean the various tracts, sublots, and portions of the Properties, including, without limitation, the portions located at each of the following addresses: 1 Saw Mill River Road, 735 Old Saw Mill River Road, 745 Old Saw Mill River Road, 755 Old Saw Mill River Road, 765 Old Saw Mill River Road, 767 Old Saw Mill River Road, 769 Old Saw Mill River Road, 771 Old Saw Mill  
  
   1 

River Road, 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, 785 Old Saw Mill River Road, and 795 Old Saw Mill River Road, each in Tarrytown, New York. 
  1.5    Contracts    shall mean the Existing Contracts and the New Contracts. 
  1.6    Deposit    shall mean FIFTY SEVEN MILLION DOLLARS AND NO/100ths ($57,000,000.00).  All interest earned on the Deposit shall be deemed part of the Deposit for all purposes under this Agreement. 
  1.7    Due Diligence Materials    shall mean all documents, materials, data, analyses, reports, studies, and other information pertaining to or concerning Sellers, any Constituent Property, or the purchase of the Properties, to the extent the same have been delivered to or made available for review by Buyer or any of its agents, employees, or representatives, including (a) all documents, materials, data, analyses, reports, studies, and other information made available to Buyer or any of its agents, employees, or representatives for review prior to the Closing Date through an online data website, and (b) all information disclosed in the real estate records of the applicable jurisdiction in which the Properties are located, but in all cases excluding the  Excluded Materials  (as defined below) except to the extent any Excluded Materials are actually delivered or made available to Buyer or any of its agents, employees, or representatives. 
  1.8 Reserved. 
  1.9    Employees    shall mean, as of immediately prior to the Closing Date, all persons employed by the Management Company (or an affiliate thereof) for the purpose of primarily operating or providing services to any Constituent Property. 
  1.10    Excluded Contracts    shall mean contracts to which either Seller or either Seller s affiliate is a party and relating to any Constituent Property (a) for insurance; (b) for existing property management; (c) for the engagement of attorneys, accountants,  surveyors, title companies, environmental consultants, engineers, architects, or appraisers; (d) that are National Service Contracts; (e) that are entered into after the Effective Date that either Seller causes to be terminated at or prior to the Closing; or (f) that are identified (or deemed identified) by Buyer within thirty (30) days of the Effective Date as Contracts to be terminated by Closing pursuant to Section 7.6.3, other than the Must-Assume Contracts.  The Excluded Contracts are not being assigned to or assumed by Buyer hereunder. 
  1.11    Existing Contracts    shall mean, collectively, all service contracts, utility agreement, maintenance agreements and other contracts or agreements in effect as of the Effective Date with respect to the Properties (other than the Excluded Contracts). 
  1.12    Existing Mortgage    shall mean that certain Mortgage, Assignment of Leases and Rents, Security Agreement and Fixture Filing made by BMR-Landmark at  
  
   2 

Eastview LLC to Citigroup Global Markets Realty Corp. and Goldman Sachs Mortgage Company, dated January 27, 2016. 
  1.13    Escrow Period    shall mean the period from (and including) the Effective Date until the earlier of the Closing or termination of this Agreement. 
  1.14    Existing Lease    means a Lease (as defined below) in existence as of the Effective Date. 
  1.15    Governmental Entity    shall mean any federal, state, provincial, municipal, or local government or other political subdivision, governmental, quasi-governmental, regulatory or administrative authority, agency, instrumentality, or commission or any court, tribunal, or judicial body. 
  1.16    Hazardous Material    shall mean (a) those substances included within the definitions of any one or more of the terms  hazardous substances,   toxic pollutants,   hazardous materials,   toxic substances,  and  hazardous waste  in the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation And Liability Act, 42 U.S.C.   9601   et seq.   (as amended), the Hazardous Materials Transportation Act, as amended, 49 U.S.C. sections 1801   et seq.  , the Resource Conservation And Recovery Act of 1976 as amended, 42 U.S.C. section 6901   et seq  ., Section 311 of the Clean Water Act, 15 U.S.C.   2601   et seq.  , 33 U.S.C.   1251   et seq.  , 42 U.S.C. 7401   et seq.  , and the regulations and publications issued under any such laws, (b) petroleum, radon gas, lead-based paint, asbestos or asbestos-containing material, and polychlorinated biphenyls, (c) mold or water conditions which may exist at the Properties, (d) radioactive isotopes as defined by the Nuclear Regulatory Commission or the New York State Department of Health or  Infectious materials as defined by the National Institute of Health and Center for Disease Control, or (e) other substances, wastes, or materials listed or defined by any state or local statutes, regulations, and ordinances pertaining to the protection of human health and the environment. 
  1.17    Improvements    shall mean the improvements, structures, and fixtures located upon the Land. 
  1.18    Independent Consideration    shall mean One Hundred and No/100ths Dollars ($100.00). 
  1.19    Intangible Property    shall mean, as to the Land, the Improvements and the Personal Property, all Leases of any portion of the Land or Improvements, and to the extent the following items are assignable and relate solely to the Land, the Improvements and the Personal Property, all Contracts assumed by Buyer pursuant to the terms hereof, all Permits and Licenses, the name  Landmark at Eastview , tenant lists, and advertising material (but excluding any Reserved Company Assets (as defined below)). 
  
   3 

1.20    Internal Revenue Code    shall mean the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended from time to time, and any corresponding provisions of succeeding law and any regulations, rulings, and guidance issued by the Internal Revenue Service. 
  1.21    Land    shall mean the land described in   Exhibit  A    attached hereto and incorporated herein by this reference. 
  1.22    Laws    shall mean any binding domestic or foreign laws, statutes, ordinances, rules, resolutions, regulations, codes, or executive orders enacted, issued, adopted, promulgated, applied, or hereinafter imposed by any Governmental Entity, including building, zoning, and environmental protection, as to the use, occupancy, rental, management, ownership, subdivision, development, conversion, or redevelopment of the Properties. 
  1.23    Leases    shall mean, collectively, (x) the leases, amendments, and modifications between Sellers and Buyer or its affiliates, (y) the leases, amendments, and modifications listed on   Schedule 1.22   (the    Lease Schedule   ), including amendments thereto hereafter entered into in accordance with this Agreement, and (z) the leases of space in the Properties, including amendments thereto, hereafter entered into in accordance with this Agreement. 
  1.24    Leasing Costs    shall mean, with respect to a particular Lease, all capital costs, expenses incurred for capital improvements, equipment, painting, decorating, partitioning, and other items to satisfy the construction obligations of the landlord under such Lease (including any expenses incurred for legal, architectural, or engineering services in respect of the foregoing),  tenant allowances  in lieu of or as reimbursements for the foregoing items, payments made for purposes of satisfying or terminating the obligations of the tenant under such Lease to the landlord under another lease (  i.e.  , lease buyout costs), costs of base building work, free rent and other similar inducements, relocation costs, temporary leasing costs, leasing commissions, brokerage commissions, legal, design, and other professional fees and costs, in each case, to the extent the landlord under such Lease is responsible for the payment of such cost or expense. 
  1.25    Liens    shall mean any liens, mortgages, deeds of trust, pledges, security interests, or other encumbrances securing any debt or obligation. 
  1.26    Management Company    shall mean BioMed Realty LLC. 
  1.27    Must-Assume Contracts    shall mean (a) those Existing Contracts that are (i) set forth on   Schedule 7.1.4-II  , (ii) those Brokerage Agreements listed on   Schedule 7.1.1(d)   under the sub-head  Assumed Brokerage Agreements , (iii) Uncompleted Capex Contracts and (iv) Telecommunications Contracts and (b) each New Contract, each of which shall be assumed by Buyer at the Closing as provided in this Agreement. 
  
   4 

1.28    National Service Contract    shall mean any contract to which either Seller or either Seller s affiliate is a party that provides for services to a Constituent Property and to other assets and properties of either Seller or either Seller s affiliates. 
  1.29    New Contracts    shall mean all service contracts, utility agreements, maintenance agreements and other contracts or agreements hereafter entered into in accordance with this Agreement, but only to the extent the same are to be assumed by Buyer at the Closing as provided in this Agreement. 
  1.30    New Leases    shall mean, collectively, any Leases entered into with respect to any portion of any Constituent Property on or after the Effective Date in accordance with the terms of this Agreement. 
  1.31    Non-Buyer Leases    shall mean all Leases, except those Leases where Buyer or any affiliates of Buyer are the tenants thereunder.   
  1.32    Participation Agreement    shall mean that certain Participation Agreement dated immediately prior to the Closing Date among Buyer, Buyer Assignee (in its capacity as lessor (   Lessor   ), Bank of America, N.A., not in its individual capacity but solely as administrative agent, and the Financial Institutions named on Schedule II therein. 
  1.33 "  Permits and Licenses  " shall mean all governmental permits, entitlements, licenses and approvals, warranties, and guarantees, relating to the Properties or the Improvements, received in connection with any work or services contemplated or performed with respect thereto, or equipment installed therein, including, without limitation, any entitlements, permits or approvals relating to any proposed expansion of or new construction of Improvements on the Properties held by Seller with respect to the Constituent Properties and in effect. 
  1.34    Person    shall mean a natural person, partnership, limited partnership, limited liability company, corporation, trust, estate, association, unincorporated association, or other entity. 
  1.35    Personal Property    shall mean, as to the Land and Improvements, tangible personal property owned by either Seller and located on, and used exclusively in connection with, the Land and Improvements including all building materials, supplies, hardware, carpeting, and other inventory located on or in the Land or Improvements and maintained in connection with the ownership and operation thereof, but excluding computer software; all furniture, furnishings, fixtures, equipment, vehicles, tools, and tangible personal property of every kind and description owned or leased (other than from either Seller or either Seller s managing agent) by any of the Tenants; any other personal property listed on   Schedule 1.32  ; and the Reserved Company Assets. 
  
   5 

1.36    Properties    shall mean the Land, as well as all of Sellers  right, title, and interest in the (a) Appurtenances, (b) the Improvements, (c) the Personal Property, and (d) the Intangible Property. 
  1.37    Reserved Company Assets    shall mean the following assets of each Seller as of the Closing Date:  all cash, cash equivalents (including certificates of deposit), reserves, deposits held by third parties (  e.g.  , utility companies), accounts receivable, and any right to a refund or other payment relating to a period prior to the Closing, including any real estate tax refund (subject to the prorations hereinafter set forth), bank accounts,     claims or other rights against any present or prior partner, member, employee, agent, manager, officer, or director of such Seller or such Seller s direct or indirect partners, members, shareholders, or affiliates, any refund in connection with termination of such Seller s existing insurance policies, all contracts between such Seller and any law firm, accounting firm, property manager, leasing agent, broker, environmental consultants and other consultants and appraisers entered into prior to the Closing, any proprietary, privileged, or confidential materials (including any materials relating to the background or financial condition of a present or prior direct or indirect partner or member of such Seller), the internal books and records of such Seller relating, for example, to contributions and distributions prior to the Closing, any software, the names  Blackstone ,  BMR , and  BioMed , and any derivations thereof, and any trademarks, trade names, brand marks, brand names, domain names, social media sites (such as Facebook or Twitter), trade dress, or logos relating thereto, any development bonds, letters of credit or other collateral held by or posted with any Governmental Entity or other third party with respect to any improvement, subdivision, or development obligations concerning any Constituent Property or any other real property, and any other intangible property that is not used exclusively in connection with any Constituent Property.  
  1.38 "  Title Company  " shall mean (a) Old Republic Title Company through its agent Lexington National Land Services LLC, as lead title company and co-insurer for 25% of the Owner s Policy and (b) Chicago Title Insurance Company and such other national title insurance companies selected by Buyer, as co-insurer for an aggregate 75% of the Owner s Policy.  
  2.   Purchase and Sale  .  Upon the terms and conditions hereinafter set forth, at the Closing, Sellers shall sell to Buyer, and Buyer shall purchase from Sellers, the Properties free and clear of all Liens and encumbrances, other than the Permitted Exceptions.  The transaction described in this Agreement is a  package deal  involving the sale of all, but not under any circumstances less than all, of the Constituent Properties to Buyer. 
  3.   Purchase Price  .  The purchase price (the    Purchase Price   ) for the Properties shall be Seven Hundred Twenty Million and No/100ths Dollars ($720,000,000.00).  A portion of the Purchase Price equal to One Hundred Thousand and No/100ths Dollars ($100,000) shall be allocated to the Personal Property.  The Purchase Price shall be allocated between the Sellers  
  
   6 

as they deem appropriate in their sole discretion.  The Purchase Price shall be paid to Sellers by Buyer as follows: 
  3.1   Deposit  .  On the Effective Date, Buyer shall deliver the Deposit to Old Republic Title Company (the    Escrow Agent   ) pursuant to wire instructions provided by the Escrow Agent.  The entire Deposit shall become nonrefundable to Buyer except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement.  Buyer shall deliver the Deposit to the Escrow Agent by wire transfer of immediately available federal funds or by bank or cashier s check drawn on a national bank reasonably satisfactory to Escrow Agent.  At all times during which the amounts so deposited hereunder shall be held by the Escrow Agent, the same shall be held by Escrow Agent as a deposit against the Purchase Price in accordance with the terms and provisions of this Agreement.   
  3.2   Application of Deposit  . 
  3.2.1 If the Closing occurs as contemplated hereunder, then the Deposit shall be paid to Seller. 
  3.2.2 In the event that the Closing does not occur as contemplated hereunder because of a default by Buyer under this Agreement and following termination of the Agreement in accordance with the terms hereof, the Deposit shall be paid to and retained by Seller.  
  3.2.3 In the event that the Closing does not occur as contemplated hereunder because of a default by Seller under this Agreement, or in the event that any of the conditions set forth in Section 4.1 hereof are not satisfied and Buyer elects to terminate this Agreement as a result thereof, the Deposit (less the Independent Consideration) shall be paid to and retained by Buyer.  
  3.2.4 The party receiving the interest earned on the Deposit shall pay any income taxes thereon, and such interest shall be reflected as an adjustment on the Closing Statement if the Closing occurs. 
  3.2.5 If either party makes a demand upon the Escrow Agent for delivery of the Deposit, the Escrow Agent shall give notice to the other party of such demand.  If a notice of objection to the proposed payment is not received from the other party within ten (10) business days after the giving of notice by the Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent is hereby authorized to deliver the Deposit to the party who made the demand.  If the Escrow Agent receives a notice of objection within said ten (10) business day period, or if for any other reason the Escrow Agent in good faith elects not to deliver the Deposit, then the Escrow Agent shall have the right, at its option, to either continue to hold the Deposit and thereafter pay it to the party entitled thereto when the Escrow Agent receives (i) a notice from the objecting party withdrawing the objection, (ii) a notice signed by both parties directing disposition of the Deposit or (iii) a final judgment or order of a court of competent jurisdiction  
  
   7 

or deposit the same with a court of competent jurisdiction in the State of New York, City of New York in connection with institution by Escrow Agent of an action in interpleader and Escrow Agent shall rely upon the decision of such court or a written statement executed by both Seller and Buyer setting forth how the Deposit should be released.   
  3.3   Escrow Agent  . The parties further agree that: 
  3.3.1 The Escrow Agent is executing this Agreement to acknowledge the Escrow Agent's responsibilities hereunder, which may be modified only by a written amendment signed by all of the parties.  Any amendment to this Agreement that is not signed by the Escrow Agent shall be effective as to the parties thereto, but shall not be binding on the Escrow Agent.  Escrow Agent shall accept the Deposit with the understanding of the parties that Escrow Agent is not a party to this Agreement except to the extent of its specific responsibilities hereunder, and does not assume or have any liability for the performance or non-performance of Buyer or Seller hereunder to either of them. 
  3.3.2 The Escrow Agent shall be protected in relying upon the accuracy, acting in reliance upon the contents, and assuming the genuineness of any notice, demand, certificate, signature, instrument or other document which is given to the Escrow Agent without verifying the truth or accuracy of any such notice, demand, certificate, signature, instrument or other document; 
  3.3.3 The Escrow Agent shall not be bound in any way by any other agreement or understanding between the parties hereto, whether or not the Escrow Agent has knowledge thereof or consents thereto unless such consent is given in writing. 
  3.3.4 The Escrow Agent's sole duties and responsibilities shall be to hold and disburse the Deposit accrued thereon in accordance with this Agreement. 
  3.3.5 The Escrow Agent shall not be liable for any action taken or omitted by the Escrow Agent in good faith and believed by the Escrow Agent to be authorized or within its rights or powers conferred upon it by this Agreement, except for damage caused by the gross negligence or willful misconduct of the Escrow Agent. 
  3.3.6 Upon the disbursement of the Deposit accrued thereon in accordance with this Agreement, the Escrow Agent shall be relieved and released from any liability under this Agreement. 
  3.3.7 The Escrow Agent may resign at any time upon at least ten (10) business days prior written notice to the parties hereto.  If, prior to the effective date of such resignation, the parties hereto shall all have approved, in writing, a  
  
   8 

successor escrow agent, then upon the resignation of the Escrow Agent, the Escrow Agent shall deliver the Deposit accrued thereon to such successor escrow agent.  From and after such resignation and the delivery of the Deposit accrued thereon to such successor escrow agent, the Escrow Agent shall be fully relieved of all of its duties, responsibilities and obligations under this Agreement, all of which duties, responsibilities and obligations shall be performed by the appointed successor escrow agent.  If for any reason the parties hereto shall not approve a successor escrow agent within such period, the Escrow Agent may bring any appropriate action or proceeding for leave to deposit the Deposit accrued thereon with a court of competent jurisdiction, pending the approval of a successor escrow agent, and upon such deposit the Escrow Agent shall be fully relieved of all of its duties, responsibilities and obligations under this Agreement. 
  3.3.8 Seller and Buyer hereby agree to, jointly and severally, indemnify, defend and hold the Escrow Agent harmless from and against any liabilities, damages, losses, costs or expenses incurred by, or claims or charges made against, the Escrow Agent (including attorneys' fees, expenses and court costs) (   Losses   ) by reason of the Escrow Agent's acting or failing to act in connection with any of the matters contemplated by this Agreement or in carrying out the terms of this Agreement, except as a result of the Escrow Agent's gross negligence, bad faith or willful misconduct.  
  3.3.9 Subject to the provisions of Section 3.3.9, in the event that a dispute shall arise in connection with this Agreement, or as to the rights of any of the parties in and to, or the disposition of, the Deposit, the Escrow Agent shall have the right to (w) hold and retain all or any part of the Deposit until such dispute is settled or finally determined by litigation, arbitration or otherwise, or (x) deposit the Deposit in an appropriate court of law, following which the Escrow Agent shall thereby and thereafter be relieved and released from any liability or obligation under this Agreement, or (y) institute an action in interpleader or other similar action permitted by stakeholders in the State of New York, or (z) interplead any of the parties in any action or proceeding which may be brought to determine the rights of the parties to all or any part of the Deposit. 
  3.3.10 The Escrow Agent shall not have any liability or obligation for loss of all or any portion of the Deposit by reason of the insolvency or failure of the institution of depository with whom the escrow account is maintained. 
  3.4 While the Deposit or any portion thereof is being held by the Escrow Agent, the Deposit shall be held by Escrow Agent at U.S. Bank and invested in the following investments (   Approved Investments   ):  (i) money market funds, or (ii) such other short-term investment option offered by the Escrow Agent as may be reasonably agreed to by Sellers and Buyer.   For purposes of investing the Deposit, the Seller  
  
   9 

represents and warrant that each Seller s tax identification number is 20-1320636.  At the Closing, the entire Deposit shall be applied to the Purchase Price.   
  3.5   Closing Payment  .  The Purchase Price, as adjusted by the application of the Deposit and by the prorations and credits specified herein, shall be paid by wire transfer of immediately available federal funds (through the escrow described in Section     5) as and when provided in Section 5.2.2.  The amount to be paid under this Section 3.5 is referred to herein as the    Closing Payment   . 
  4.   Conditions Precedent  .  The obligation of Buyer to acquire the Properties as contemplated by this Agreement is subject to satisfaction of all of the conditions precedent for the benefit of Buyer set forth in Sections 4.1 and 4.3.4 herein or expressly provided elsewhere in this Agreement, any of which may be waived prior to the Closing only in writing by Buyer.  The obligation of either Seller to transfer each of its Constituent Properties as contemplated by this Agreement is subject to satisfaction of all of the conditions precedent for the benefit of Sellers set forth in Sections 4.2 herein or expressly provided elsewhere in this Agreement, any of which may be waived prior to the Closing only in writing by Sellers.  If any of such conditions is not fulfilled (or waived in writing) pursuant to the terms of this Agreement, then the party in whose favor such condition exists may terminate this Agreement and, in connection with any such termination made in accordance with this Section 4, Sellers and Buyer shall be released from further obligation or liability hereunder (except for those obligations and liabilities that expressly survive such termination), and the Deposit (less the Independent Consideration, which shall be paid to Sellers) shall be disposed of in accordance with Section 9.  However, the Closing shall constitute a waiver of all conditions precedent.  For the avoidance of doubt, each party acknowledges and agrees that in no event shall a party be entitled to terminate this Agreement with respect to less than all of the Properties and in no event shall Sellers be obligated to sell or Buyer be obligated to acquire less than all of the Constituent Properties. 
  4.1   Performance by Sellers for Benefit of Buyer  .  The following shall be conditions precedent to Buyer s obligation to purchase the Properties:  
  4.1.1 Each Seller shall have performed and observed, in all material respects, all covenants and agreements of this Agreement to be performed or observed by such Seller prior to or on the Closing Date including, without limitation, delivering to Buyer all of the documents required to be delivered by Seller under Section 5.2.1 hereof;  
  4.1.2 There shall be no order or injunction of any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Governmental Entity nor any statute, rule, regulation, or executive order promulgated by any Governmental Entity in effect as of the Closing which restrains or prohibits the transfer of the Properties or the consummation of any other transaction contemplated hereby; provided that if any of the foregoing shall be in effect as a direct or indirect result of any Seller s acts or omissions taken or omitted by Seller with the intention of preventing the Closing, the failure of Buyer  
  
   10 

to close by reason of the foregoing shall constitute a default by Seller hereunder, entitling Buyer to all rights and remedies of Buyer provided under   Section 9.2  ; and  
  4.1.3 Each of the representations and warranties of each Seller (i) set forth in Section 7.1.5 (Due Authority), Section 7.1.6 (No Conflict) and Section 7.17 (Insolvency) (collectively, the "  Fundamental Representations  ") shall be true, correct and complete (without giving effect to any limitation as to materiality or material adverse effect set forth therein) as of the Closing Date, as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except for representations and warranties made as of a specified date, the accuracy of which shall be determined as of that specified date) and (ii) contained in this Agreement, other than the Fundamental Representations, shall be true, correct and complete in all material respects as of the Closing Date, as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except for representations and warranties made as of a specified date, the accuracy of which shall be determined as of that specified date), excluding, however, any matter or change (except arising from a breach by Seller of a covenant set forth in this Agreement) that does not materially and adversely affect the Properties in the aggregate or either Seller s ability to consummate the transactions contemplated herein or is (1) expressly permitted or contemplated by the terms of this Agreement or (2) actually known to Buyer prior to Closing.  Without limitation of the foregoing, in the event that either Seller s closing certificate (each a    Seller Closing Certificate   ) in the form attached hereto as   Exhibit  G    to be delivered by each Seller at Closing discloses any changes in the representations and warranties of such Seller under this Agreement that materially and adversely affect the Properties in the aggregate or either Seller s ability to consummate the transactions contemplated herein and are not otherwise permitted or contemplated by the terms of this Agreement or actually known to Buyer prior to the Closing, then Buyer shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written notice delivered to Sellers prior to the Closing and, in connection with any such termination, Buyer shall be entitled to a return of the Deposit (less the Independent Consideration, which shall be paid to Sellers), and Sellers and Buyer shall be released from further obligations or liability hereunder (except for those obligations and liabilities that expressly survive such termination).  Notwithstanding anything in this Agreement to the contrary, if the representations and warranties relating to the Leases and the Contracts set forth in Section 7.1 and the status of the tenants, and contract parties thereunder (other than Sellers or its affiliates) were true and correct in all material respects as of the Effective Date, no change in circumstances or status of such tenants or any contract parties (e.g., defaults, bankruptcies, below market status or other adverse matters relating to such tenants or contract parties or a party s exercise following the Effective Date of any contractual termination rights not caused by the actions of Sellers in violation of the terms of this Agreement) occurring after the Effective Date  
  
   11 

shall in and of itself permit Buyer to terminate this Agreement or constitute grounds for Buyer s failure to Close or otherwise constitute a breach of any representation or warranty by Seller. 
  4.2   Performance by Buyer for Benefit of Sellers  .  The following shall be conditions precedent to Sellers' obligation to sell the Properties:  
  4.2.1 Buyer shall have performed and observed, in all material respects, all covenants and agreements of this Agreement to be performed or observed by Buyer prior to or on the Closing Date including, without limitation, delivering to Seller all of the documents required to be delivered by Buyer under Section 5.2.2 hereof;   
  4.2.2 Sellers shall have received the Purchase Price in accordance with Section 2.2 and all other amounts due to Sellers hereunder; 
  4.2.3 There shall be no order or injunction of any court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction obtained by any Governmental Entity nor any statute, rule, regulation, or executive order promulgated by any Governmental Entity in effect as of the Closing which restrains or prohibits the transfer of the Properties or the consummation of any other transaction contemplated hereby; provided that if any of the foregoing shall be in effect as a direct or indirect result of any Buyer acts or omissions taken or omitted by Buyer with the intention of preventing the Closing, the failure of Seller to close by reason of the foregoing shall constitute a default by Buyer hereunder, entitling Seller to all rights and remedies of Seller provided under   Section 9.1  ; and  
  4.2.4 Each of the representations and warranties of Buyer set forth in this Agreement shall be true, correct and complete (without giving effect to any limitation as to materiality or material adverse effect set forth therein) as of the Closing Date, as though made on and as of the Closing Date (except for representations and warranties made as of a specified date, the accuracy of which shall be determined as of that specified date).  Without limitation of the foregoing, in the event that Buyer's closing certificate (a    Buyer Closing Certificate   ) in the form attached hereto as   Exhibit  H    to be delivered by Buyer at Closing discloses any material adverse changes in the representations and warranties of Buyer under this Agreement then Sellers shall have the right to terminate this Agreement by written notice to Buyer and, in connection with any such termination, Sellers shall be entitled to retain the Deposit, and Sellers and Buyer shall be released from further obligations or liability hereunder (except for those obligations and liabilities that expressly survive such termination). 
  
   12 

4.3   Title Matters  . 
  4.3.1   Title Report; Survey  .   
  (a) Buyer hereby acknowledges that Sellers have delivered or made available to Buyer: (i) a copy of Commitment Number 831565 (O-NY-CP-LX) effective date November 18, 2016, last revised December 27, 2016, issued by Title Company covering the Properties (the    Preliminary Title Report    and (ii) a copy of the following survey, which represents the most recent existing survey in Sellers  possession relating to the Properties: ALTA/ACSM Land Title Survey for Landmark at Eastview, last revised December 29, 2016, performed by First Order, LLC, Project No. 4969 (the    Survey   ).  Any matter reflected on the Survey is conclusively deemed to have been approved by Buyer.  Buyer is solely responsible for obtaining any updated title commitments, surveys, or any other title-related matters Buyer desires with respect to the Properties.   
  4.3.2   Title Objections  .   
  (a) If any written update of either the Survey or the Preliminary Title Report received by Buyer (   Updated Reports   )     shall reveal or disclose any material title exceptions, defects, encumbrances or other exceptions in the title to the Properties which are not Permitted Exceptions and are not as a result of the acts of Buyer or Buyer s Representatives and to which Buyer objects ("  Title Objections  "), then Buyer (or Buyer's counsel) shall notify Sellers (or Sellers' counsel) of such Title Objections in writing (a "  Title Disapproval Notice   ) within the sooner to occur of the Closing or five (5) business days of Buyer's receipt thereof.  If Buyer does not notify Sellers in writing of any such Title Objections within the time period set forth in this Section 4.3.2, then Buyer shall be deemed to have accepted the state of title to the Properties reflected in the Updated Reports and to have waived any claims or defects which it might otherwise have raised with respect to the matters reflected therein and the same shall be deemed to be Permitted Exceptions for all purposes of this Agreement. 
  (b) For the avoidance of doubt, Permitted Exceptions (as defined below) shall not constitute Title Objections.   
  (c) If Buyer timely delivers a Title Disapproval Notice indicating a Title Objection, then, subject to Sellers' obligations under Section 4.3.3 hereof, the applicable Seller shall have until the earlier to occur of (1) five (5) business days after receipt of such Title Disapproval Notice or (2) the Closing, to elect to notify Buyer in writing (a    Title Response Notice   ) that such Seller either (i) will remove such Title Objection from title to  
  
   13 

the applicable Constituent Property on or before the Closing, subject to a reasonable adjournment of the Closing (not to exceed thirty (30) days) for the purpose of such removal (which adjournment can be extended for an additional fifteen (15) days so long as Sellers are diligently pursuing such cure), or (ii) elects not to cause such Title Objection to be removed from title to the applicable Constituent Property.  If the applicable Seller fails to deliver a Title Response Notice as to a particular Title Objection within such five (5) business day period, then such Seller shall be deemed to have made the election described in clause (ii) above as to such Title Objection.   
  4.3.3   Sellers  Liens  .   
  (a) Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of Section 4.5, each Seller shall be obligated to take (and hereby covenants to take), with respect to its Constituent Properties such actions as may be reasonably required by the Title Company so that the Title Company is willing to issue the Owner s Policy to Buyer without exception for (i) the Existing Mortgage if the same is not assigned to Buyer s lender pursuant to Section 4.3.7, (ii) any Liens securing any other mortgage or deed of trust financing voluntarily obtained by such Seller after the Effective Date and prior to the Closing, (iii) any mechanics  liens or materialmen s liens arising from any work or improvements at such Constituent Property ordered or authorized by such Seller that encumber the Constituent Property on the Closing Date (other than Permitted Mechanics  Liens), (iv) any tax or judgment liens (the items described in the preceding subclauses (i), (ii), (iii) and (iv), collectively, "  Monetary Encumbrances  "), (v) any other lien or encumbrance (other than Permitted Mechanics  Liens) which can be satisfied by the payment of a liquidated sum not in excess of $10,000,000, in the aggregate of all such other encumbrances (the items described in this clause (v) being "  Other Liens  ") and (vi) any encumbrances voluntarily recorded by any Seller against any of the Properties on or following the date of Preliminary Title Report and not approved by Buyer ("  Voluntary Encumbrances  ").   
  (b) To the extent any Title Objections appear in any Updated Reports which are not Permitted Exceptions and to which Buyer has timely objected pursuant to   Section 4.5  , then Sellers shall be obligated to cause to be released, satisfied and otherwise discharged of record all such Title Objections which are Monetary Encumbrances (subject to the limitations described above), Other Liens (subject to the limitations described above) and Voluntary Encumbrances.  Nothing herein shall require any Seller to cure any Title Objection other than as expressly set forth in the immediately preceding sentence.  Sellers, in their discretion, may adjourn the Closing Date for up to thirty (30) days in the aggregate in order to  
  
   14 

eliminate any Title Objections (which in either case are not Permitted Exceptions), which adjournment can be extended for an additional fifteen (15) days so long as Sellers are diligently pursuing such cure.  In lieu of eliminating any Monetary Encumbrances or Other Liens, upon Buyer s consent (not to be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed) Sellers shall have the right to effectuate a cure by having the Title Company insure or bond over such Monetary Encumbrances and/or Other Liens.  If, as of the Closing Date, there are any Title Objections (which are not Permitted Exceptions or are not otherwise omitted from the Owner s Policy in accordance herewith), then, subject to Sellers' adjournment rights set forth in this   Section 4.3.2  , Buyer shall have the right (as its sole and exclusive remedy with respect to such matters) either (I) to terminate this Agreement by delivering notice thereof to Sellers, in which event Buyer shall be entitled to the return of the Deposit (less the Independent Consideration), and neither party shall have any obligations hereunder except those expressly stated to survive the termination of this Agreement, or (II) to waive, in writing, its objection thereto and consummate the Closing, in which event (i) such Title Objections shall thereupon constitute Permitted Exceptions for all purposes of this Agreement and (ii) Buyer shall be entitled to a credit against the Closing Payment in an amount equal to the sum of (x) the amount necessary to discharge of record all of the unsatisfied Monetary Encumbrances and (y) the lesser of (A) the amount necessary to discharge of record all of the unsatisfied Other Liens or (B) $10,000,000.  Sellers agrees that Sellers shall not voluntarily enter into any agreement to create a lien or encumbrance on the Properties after the Effective Date without Buyer's prior written consent. 
  4.3.4   Permitted Exceptions to Title  .  Buyer s obligation to purchase the Properties is subject to the condition precedent that, at the Closing, Title Company shall have irrevocably committed to issue the Owner s Policy upon the Closing subject only to Permitted Exceptions and satisfaction by Buyer of the conditions to be satisfied by the proposed insured under the Owner s Policy, including the payment of all premiums.  At the Closing, Seller shall convey and Buyer shall be obligated to accept fee simple title to the Properties, subject only to the following exceptions to title (the    Permitted Exceptions   ): 
  (a) Real estate taxes and assessments not yet due and payable, if any, provided that such items are apportioned as provided in this Agreement; 
  (b) The rights of tenants, as tenants only, under the Leases; 
  (c) Any service, installation, connection, maintenance charge and current charges for sewer, water, electricity, telephone, cable television, or gas,  
  
   15 

if any, provided that such items are not due and payable and are apportioned as provided in this Agreement; 
  (d) The matters set forth on   Schedule 4.3.4   annexed hereto; 
  (e) All laws, regulations, resolutions, or ordinances, including, without limitation, building, zoning, and environmental protection, as to the use, occupancy, subdivision, development, conversion, or redevelopment of any Constituent Property currently or hereafter imposed by any Governmental Entity; 
  (f) Mechanics  or materialmens  liens or claims or notices of commencement arising from (i) Buyer s due diligence reviews or inspections hereunder, (ii) any other work ordered or performed by or on behalf of (x) Buyer or its affiliates in or for its leased space or otherwise or (y) any other tenant pursuant to the terms of its Lease, or (iii) Pending Capital Projects (   Permitted Mechanics  Liens    
  (g) Such other exceptions to title or survey exceptions as may be approved or deemed approved by Buyer pursuant to the above provisions of this Section 4.3, or as otherwise expressly permitted under this Agreement, or any exceptions resulting from the acts of Buyer or its consultants, employees, agents, or representatives;  
  (h) The Existing Mortgage if the same is assigned to Buyer s Lender pursuant to Section 5.3.7; and 
  (i) (i) The matters set forth on the Survey and (ii) any matter that would be disclosed by a current, accurate ALTA/NSPS survey of the Land and Improvements provided that any such matter does not have a material adverse effect on the use or operation of the Land or Improvements. 
  Conclusive evidence of the availability of such Owner s Policy shall be the irrevocable commitment of Title Company to issue to Buyer on the Closing Date a standard form Owner s Policy of Title Insurance issued by Title Company in the State of New York (the    Owner s Policy   ), in the face amount of the Purchase Price, which policy shall show (i) title to the Land and Improvements to be vested of record in Buyer, and (ii) the Permitted Exceptions to be the only exceptions to title, subject to the satisfaction by Buyer of the conditions to be satisfied by the proposed insured under the Owner s Policy, including the payment of all premiums. In connection with obtaining any desired coverage over survey matters under the Owner s Policy, Buyer shall deliver to Title Company prior to the Closing Date a current ALTA survey certified by a licensed surveyor in the State of New York sufficient to permit or cause Title Company to insure against survey matters at the Closing.  Notwithstanding any  
  
   16 

provision to the contrary contained in this Agreement or any of the Closing Documents, at either Seller s sole election any or all of the Permitted Exceptions may be omitted by such Seller in its respective Deed (as defined below) without giving rise to any liability of Sellers, irrespective of any covenant or warranty of Sellers that otherwise may be contained or implied in the applicable Deed.  (The preceding sentence shall survive the Closing and not be merged therein or with any Deed.)  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Buyer agrees to purchase the Properties subject to any and all violations of applicable law, including any open building permits and any fines or penalties associated with the foregoing (   Violations )  , or any condition or state of repair or disrepair or other matter or thing, whether or not noted, which, if noted, would result in a Violation being placed on the Property.  Sellers shall have no duty to remove or comply with or repair any condition, matter or thing whether or not noted, which, if noted, would result in a Violation being placed on the Property; provided, however, Seller shall be responsible for all fines,  penalties and costs arising out of any Violations to the extent such Violations were issued prior to the Closing. 
  4.3.5   Endorsements to Owner s Policy  .  It is understood that Buyer may request a number of endorsements to the Owner s Policy.  The issuance of such endorsements shall not be a condition to Closing.  Sellers shall not be obligated to incur any expense or undertake any potential liability in connection with the issuance of any such endorsements. 
  4.3.6   Payment from Balance of the Purchase Price  .  Any unpaid taxes, water charges, sewer rents and assessments, together with the interest and penalties thereon to a date not more than five (5) business days following the Closing Date (in each case subject to any applicable apportionment), and any Monetary Encumbrances or Other Liens, together with the cost of recording or filing any instruments necessary to discharge such Monetary Encumbrances or Other Liens, may be paid out of the proceeds of the balance of the Purchase Price payable at the Closing.  Subject to the provisions of Section 4.3.3, Sellers hereby agree to deliver to Buyer, on the Closing Date, instruments in recordable form sufficient (in the reasonable opinion of Title Company) to discharge any such Monetary Encumbrances or Other Liens. 
  4.3.7        Existing Mortgage Assignment  .    Sellers shall use commercially reasonable efforts to assign the Existing Mortgage to Buyer s lender upon the Closing (the    Existing Mortgage Assignment   ).  In connection with the Existing Mortgage Assignment, (a) each of Seller and Buyer shall be responsible for payment of its own legal fees, (b) Sellers shall not incur any liability or be required to make any representations or warranties regarding the Existing Mortgage or other loan documents and (c) other than as provided for in Section 7.6.2, the Purchase Price to be paid by Buyer at Closing shall  
  
   17 

be unaffected.  Each of Buyer and Sellers shall be entitled to fifty-percent (50%) of the mortgage recording tax savings realized by Buyer as a result of the Existing Mortgage Assignment (the    Mortgage Recording Savings   ) and Sellers shall receive a credit at closing in the amount equal to Sellers  portion of the Mortgage Recording Savings.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, in no event shall the assignment of the Existing Mortgage be a condition precedent to Buyer s obligation to proceed with the Closing under this Agreement and the failure to obtain the Existing Mortgage Assignment shall not entitle Buyer to terminate this Agreement or delay the Closing. 
  4.4   Due Diligence Reviews  .  Except for title and survey matters (which shall be governed by the provisions of Section 4.5 above), and subject to the provisions hereinafter set forth, during the period commencing on the Effective Date and continuing until the Closing Date or the earlier termination of this Agreement, Buyer shall have the right, at Buyer s sole cost, risk, and expense, to conduct its review and due diligence of, and physically inspect, as applicable, the Properties, in accordance with this   Section 4.4  , and in connection therewith, Buyer and Buyer's Representatives (as defined below) shall have the right, through the Closing Date (provided that this Agreement shall not have terminated), from time to time, upon the advance notice required and subject to the limitations described in this   Section 4.4  , to (i) enter upon and pass through the Properties during normal business hours on a business day to examine and inspect all matters pertaining to the purchase of the Properties, including the performance of all toxic, soils, engineering, and environmental tests (provided that  Buyer and Buyer s Representatives shall be prohibited from performing any intrusive or destructive testing (including, without limitation, Phase II environmental testing) without the applicable Seller s prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed if such intrusive or destructive testing is recommended by a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment for the Properties) and (ii) review, copy and inspect all leases, license agreements, and service contracts, sewer/water conditions, utilities service information, zoning information, access information, assessments and city fees, developmental conditions and approvals, operating expenses and legal, physical, and compliance matters and conditions respecting the Properties (the foregoing being collectively called the    Property Information   ).  Subject to Section 4.6.1, each Seller shall provide Buyer and its actual and potential investors, lenders, and assignees, and their respective representatives, attorneys, accountants, consultants, surveyors, title companies, agents, employees, contractors, appraisers, architects, and engineers (collectively    Buyer's Representatives   ), with reasonable access during normal business hours on a business day to its Constituent Properties (subject to the rights of tenants under the Leases) upon reasonable advance written notice (which shall in any event be at least 24 hours in advance) and shall also make available for review and copying (at Buyer s expense) copies of all material documents, materials, and other information relating to the Property Information that Buyer or Buyer's Representatives may reasonably request and that, to such Seller s knowledge, is in the possession of such Seller or such Seller s agents.  In  
  
   18 

no event, however, shall such Seller be obligated to make available (or cause to be made available) any proprietary or confidential documents including reports or studies that have been superseded by subsequent reports or studies, and any of the following confidential and proprietary materials (collectively, the    Excluded Materials   ):  (1) information contained in financial analyses or projections (including either Seller s budgets, valuations, cost-basis information, and capital account information); (2) any proposals, letters of intent, draft contracts, or similar materials prepared by or for other prospective purchasers of the Properties or any part thereof; (3) material that is subject to attorney-client privilege or that is attorney work product; (4) appraisal reports or letters; (5) organizational, financial, and other documents relating to or prepared for either Seller or its affiliates, or its or their boards, committees, partners, or investors (other than any evidence of due authorization and organization required under this Agreement); (6) material that either Seller is legally required not to disclose other than by reason of legal requirements voluntarily assumed by either Seller after the Effective Date; and (7) the Excluded Contracts.   
  4.4.1   Review Standards  .   
  (a) Buyer shall at all times conduct its due diligence reviews, inspections, and examinations in a manner so as to not cause liability, damage, lien, loss, cost, or expense (other than normal and customary costs or expenses incurred by either Seller in facilitating Buyer s due diligence investigations in accordance with the terms of this Agreement) to either Seller or any Constituent Property, so as to not unreasonably interfere with or disturb any tenant or either Seller s operation of its Constituent Properties, and so as to comply with each Seller s or any such tenant s reasonable security requirements. 
  (b) Buyer will indemnify, defend, and hold Sellers harmless from and against any reasonable out-of-pocket losses, costs, damages, liens, claims, liabilities or expenses (including, but not limited to, reasonable out-of-pocket attorneys  fees) actually incurred by Sellers arising from or by reason of Buyer's and/or Buyer s Representatives  access to, or inspection of, the Properties or the Property Information, or any tests, inspections or other due diligence conducted by or on behalf of Buyer in connection with the transactions contemplated in this Agreement, except to the extent such losses, costs, damages, liens, claims, liabilities or expenses arise from (i) the mere discovery of existing conditions or are otherwise caused by any existing conditions at any of the Properties that are not exacerbated by Buyer or Buyer's Representatives or (ii) the gross negligence or willful misconduct of either Seller, or Seller's affiliates or agents. 
  
   19 

(c) Prior to entry upon any Constituent Property, Buyer shall provide Sellers with copies of certificates of insurance evidencing the following insurance coverages (naming Sellers as additional insureds) that shall be maintained by Buyer and by any consultants and other third parties engaged by Buyer in connection with Buyer s and such third parties  investigations upon the Property: (a) general liability insurance, from an insurer with an A.M Best rating of no less that A- VII, in the amount of not less than Two Million Dollars ($2,000,000) aggregate liability, which insurance shall provide coverage against claim for personal liability or physical property damage caused by Buyer and Buyer's Representatives in connection with such inspections and tests and/or the entry or activities of Buyer and Buyer's Representatives upon the Property, (b) worker s compensation insurance having limits no less than those required by state statute and federal statute, if applicable, and (c) excess (umbrella) liability insurance, meeting the requirements above, with limits of not less than Five Million Dollars ($5,000,000) per occurrence. 
  (d)        Without limitation on the foregoing, in no event shall Buyer:  (i) conduct any intrusive or destructive physical testing (environmental (including, without limitation, any Phase II environmental testing), structural, or otherwise) at the Properties (such as soil borings, water samplings, or the like) or take physical samples from the Properties without the applicable Seller s prior written consent, which consent, as to such intrusive or destructive physical testing or sampling, shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned or delayed if such intrusive or destructive testing is recommended by a Phase I Environmental Site Assessment for the Properties (and Buyer shall in all events promptly return the Properties to their prior condition and repair thereafter); (ii) contact any of the Employees or any consultant or other professional engaged by either Seller to discuss the Property or the transaction contemplated hereunder, or contact any tenant of the Properties (or its representatives) (other than an affiliate of Buyer) to discuss the Property or the transaction contemplated hereunder, in each case without Sellers  prior written consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) unless Buyer has a pre-existing contractual or advisory relationship with such consultant or professional; (iii) contact any Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over the Properties to discuss the Property or the transaction contemplated hereunder without the applicable Seller s prior written consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld) other than ordinary contact normally associated with customary due diligence examinations that does not involve any discussions with governmental officials (except to the extent necessary to request records and to contact the Town of Mount Pleasant Industrial Development Agency and the Westchester County Industrial Development Agency to ensure the continued effectiveness of existing tax incentive programs that benefit Buyer so  
  
   20 

long as Sellers are provided sufficient notice of such discussions or meetings and are permitted to be including in such discussions or meetings); or (iv) contact any member or partner of either Seller (other than representatives of Blackstone and BioMed Realty) or any lender or servicer with respect to the Existing Mortgage, in each case, without the prior written consent of either Seller (which shall not be unreasonably withheld).  Consents under clause (ii), (iii), or (iv) above may be given by e-mail by Denis Sullivan (E mail:  denis.sullivan@biomedrealty.com; Telephone: 858 207 5975), or Marie Lewis (E mail:  marie.lewis@biomedrealty.com; Telephone: 858 207 5967), or by such other individuals designated in a written notice or e-mail notice given by Sellers to Buyer.  Each Seller shall have the right, at its option, to cause a representative of such Seller to be present at all inspections, reviews, and examinations conducted hereunder.   
  (e)        Buyer shall schedule any entry (by it or its designees) onto any Constituent Property not leased by Buyer in writing and in advance with Sellers, which shall be at least 24 hours in advance and all such entries shall be during normal business hours on a business day.  If this Agreement is terminated for any reason, (i) Buyer shall promptly destroy or return all Due Diligence Materials provided by Sellers to Buyer, and all copies and other reproductions of the Due Diligence Materials made by Buyer and/or any of its agents, and shall certify to Sellers in writing that Buyer has destroyed or returned all such materials, and (ii) upon either Seller s request, Buyer shall promptly deliver to Sellers copies of all third-party reports prepared by or for Buyer in connection with Buyer s inspection of the Properties.  In connection with any permitted testing, sampling, or other work performed hereunder, Buyer shall promptly dispose of (or cause to be disposed of), at its sole cost in accordance with all applicable Laws, any waste, samples, or other materials generated or removed by Buyer or by its agents or contractors arising from or in connection with the investigations, samplings, or testing hereunder.  This Section 4.4.1 shall survive any termination of this Agreement.  
  4.4.2 Reserved. 
  5.   Closing Procedure  .  The closing (the    Closing   ) of the sale and purchase herein provided shall be held through the offices of the Escrow Agent, or at such other location as may be mutually agreed to by the parties at 1:00 p.m. EST on March 3, 2017; provided, however, Buyer shall have the right  by written notice to Sellers at least five (5) business days prior to the scheduled Closing to adjourn Closing until 1:00 p.m. EST on March 10, 2017  (such date, or such later date to which Seller adjourns the Closing in accordance with the provisions hereof is herein referred to as the "  Outside Closing Date  "), it being understood that TIME SHALL BE OF THE ESSENCE with respect to each of the parties' obligation to close on  
  
   21 

the Outside Closing Date.  The date on which the Closing occurs shall be hereinafter referred to as the "  Closing Date  ". 
  5.1   Reserved  . 
  5.2   Closing Deliveries  .  The parties shall deliver to the Escrow Agent the following: 
  5.2.1   Sellers  Deliveries  .  On or prior to the Closing Date, each Seller shall execute, acknowledge (where applicable) and deliver (or cause to be delivered) to the Escrow Agent the following: 
  (a) An original bargain and sale deed with covenant (the    Deed   )     in the form of   Exhibit  C    attached hereto conveying to Buyer its Constituent Properties in fee simple, subject only to the Permitted Exceptions; 
  (b) Two (2) counterparts of an original bill of sale, assignment and assumption agreement (the    Bill Of Sale, Assignment, and Assumption   ) in the form of   Exhibit  D    attached hereto conveying to Buyer (with no value separate from the Land) all right, title and interest of such Seller in and to its Constituent Properties; 
  (c)        A list of all cash and non-cash tenant security deposits (including letters of credit) delivered to such Seller as of the Closing Date pursuant to the terms of the Leases (together with a list of the amounts of any tenant security deposits applied or letters of credit drawn upon and applied towards tenant's liabilities under the Leases), together with, subject to the terms of the applicable prorations provisions herein, other instruments of assignment, transfer, signature guaranty or consent as may be necessary to permit Buyer to realize upon the same, each duly executed and delivered by such Seller;   
  (d)        An original certificate in the form   Exhibit  I    attached hereto certifying that such Seller is not a  foreign person  as defined in Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code; 
  (e)        Unless Buyer and Sellers mutually elect to deliver the same outside of escrow, written notices executed by such Seller and addressed to each of the tenants under the Leases with respect to each Constituent Property (   Tenant Notices   ), in the form of   Exhibit  E   , which notices Buyer shall, at Buyer s sole cost and expense, mail to each such tenant by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested within ten (10) business days after the Closing Date (and Buyer shall provide proof of delivery thereof to Sellers promptly following delivery of Tenant Notices to tenants); 
  
   22 

(f)        Unless Buyer and Sellers mutually elect to deliver the same outside of escrow, written notices executed by such Seller and addressed to each of the vendors under any Contract to be assumed by Buyer at Closing as provided in this Agreement (   Vendor Notices   ), such Vendor Notices to be in such form(s) as are reasonably required by Sellers, which notices shall indicate that the applicable Constituent Properties have been sold to Buyer and that all rights of such Seller thereunder have been assigned to Buyer.  Buyer shall, at Buyer s sole cost and expense, mail to each such Vendor Notices to such vendors by registered or certified mail, return receipt requested within ten (10) business days after the Closing Date (and Buyer shall provide proof of delivery thereof to Sellers promptly following delivery of Vendor Notices to vendors); 
  (g) A Seller Closing Certificate duly executed by such Seller; 
  (h) Evidence reasonably satisfactory to Buyer and the Escrow Agent respecting the due organization of such Seller and the due authorization and execution by the person executing this Agreement and the documents required to be delivered hereunder on behalf of such Seller; 
  (i) Such applicable sales tax or real property transfer tax forms or declarations or similar forms (the "  Transfer Tax Returns  ") prepared and executed by such Seller, together with the payment of the amount of the transfer taxes, if any, due in connection with the transactions contemplated hereunder; 
  (j) If required by the Title Company, a title certificate in the form of   Exhibit  F    (   Seller Title Certificate   ) to facilitate the issuance of any title insurance sought by Buyer in connection with the transactions contemplated hereby;  
  (k) An updated   Schedule 7.1.1(e)   dated no earlier than five (5) business days prior to the Closing Date; 
  (l)        Any operating statements with respect to the Constituent Properties for the calendar years 2014 and 2015 and any draft operating statements with respect to the Constituent Properties for the calendar year 2016 (other than Excluded Materials); 
  (m)        An updated schedule of Seller Leasing Costs as of the Closing Date; and 
  (n)        Such additional documents as may be reasonably required by the Escrow Agent in order to consummate the transactions contemplated hereunder; provided the same do not increase in any material respect the  
  
   23 

costs to, or liability or obligations of, such Seller in a manner not otherwise provided for herein. 
  In addition to the foregoing, to the extent they do not constitute Reserved Company Assets and to the applicable Seller s knowledge are then in the possession of such Seller (or its agents) and have not theretofore been delivered to Buyer, such Seller shall deliver to Buyer at or promptly before the Closing: (i) any plans and specifications for the Improvements and as-built drawings for each Constituent Property; (ii) all unexpired warranties and guarantees that such Seller has received in connection with any work or services performed with respect to, or equipment installed in, each Constituent Property; (iii) all keys and other access control devices for each Constituent Property; (iv) originals (to the extent in such Seller's possession, otherwise photostatic copies hereof) of all Leases in effect on such date for each Constituent Property; (v) originals (to the extent in such Seller's possession, otherwise photostatic copies hereof) of all Contracts assumed by Buyer at Closing, Permits and Licenses for the Constituent Property that will remain in effect after the Closing and all tenant leasing information, leasing files, operating reports, and other material documents relating to the operation or maintenance of each Constituent Property (other than Excluded Materials) in the applicable Seller s possession; and (vi) a summary of any employee benefit plans or other employee health plans applicable to the Transferred Employees immediately prior to Closing.  All items described in this paragraph may be either delivered at or before Closing or left at the Properties. 
  5.2.2        Buyer Deliveries  .  On or prior to the Closing Date (it being understood that the Closing Payment shall be delivered no later than 1:00 p.m. EST on the Closing Date), Buyer shall deliver to the Escrow Agent the following: 
  (a)        The Closing Payment by wire transfer of immediately available federal funds; 
  (b)        Two (2) counterparts of the duly executed original Bill Of Sale, Assignment, and Assumption; 
  (c)        Unless Buyer and Sellers mutually elect to deliver the same outside of escrow, duly executed Tenant Notices; 
  (d)        Unless Buyer and Sellers mutually elect to deliver the same outside of escrow, duly executed Vendor Notices; 
  (e)        The Buyer Closing Certificate duly executed by Buyer; 
  
   24 

(f)        Evidence reasonably satisfactory to the Escrow Agent respecting the due organization of Buyer and the due authorization and execution by Buyer of this Agreement and the documents required to be delivered hereunder;  
  (g)        Such additional documents as may be reasonably required by the Escrow Agent in order to consummate the transactions hereunder (provided the same do not increase in any material respect the costs to, or liability or obligations of, Buyer in a manner not otherwise provided for herein); and 
  (h)        The Transfer Tax Returns duly executed by Buyer, to the extent required. 
  5.2.3   Mutual Deliveries  .  At least one (1) business day prior to the Closing Date, Buyer and Sellers shall mutually execute and deliver (or cause to be executed and delivered) to the Escrow Agent, the following: 
  (a) A closing statement (the    Closing Statement   ) reflecting the Purchase Price, the adjustments and prorations required hereunder, and the allocation of income and expenses required hereby. 
  5.3   Closing Costs  .   
  5.3.1        Each Seller shall pay or cause to be paid with respect to its Constituent Properties (1) one half (1/2) of all escrow charges; and (2) 100% of the real estate transfer taxes payable in connection with the sale contemplated herein.  Buyer shall pay (a) all premiums required for the Owner s Policy to be issued, including any and all endorsements thereto; (b) one half (1/2) of all escrow charges; (c) Buyer s cost to obtain a new survey or to update the Survey; (d) the costs to record the Deeds; and (e) all fees, costs, and expenses in connection with Buyer s due diligence reviews and analyses hereunder.  Any other closing costs shall be allocated in accordance with local custom.  Sellers and Buyer shall pay their respective shares of prorations as hereinafter provided.  Except as otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement, each party shall pay the fees of its own attorneys, accountants, and other professionals. 
  5.3.2 Although it is not anticipated that any sales tax shall be due and payable, Sellers agree that Sellers shall pay any and all applicable sales and/or compensating use taxes imposed upon or due in connection with the transactions contemplated hereunder under Sections 1105, 1107, 1109 and 1110 of the New York State Tax Law and any successor provisions thereto or replacement provisions thereof.  Sellers shall file all necessary tax returns with respect to all such taxes and, to the extent required by applicable law,  
  
   25 

Buyer will join in the execution of any such tax returns to the extent required by applicable law. 
  5.4   Prorations  .  All matters involving prorations, credits or adjustments to be made in connection with the Closing and not specifically provided for in another section of this Agreement shall be adjusted in accordance with this   Section 5.4  .    
  5.4.1        Items to be Prorated  .  Except as otherwise set forth herein, all items to be prorated pursuant to this   Section 5.4   shall be prorated as of 11:59 P.M. on the day immediately preceding the Closing Date on the basis of the Proration Statement.  Not later than five (5) business days prior to the Closing Date, Sellers shall deliver to Buyer a proposed "  Proration Statement  ".  Not later than three (3) business days prior to the Closing Date, Buyer shall deliver to Sellers a written statement of objection or agreement to such Proration Statement.  In the event of any disagreement, Buyer and Sellers shall meet prior to the Closing Date for the purpose of agreeing to and finalizing the Proration Statement. Buyer and Sellers hereby agree to act reasonably and in good faith in such discussions and determinations.  Except as otherwise set forth herein, all prorations shall be done in accordance with the customs with respect to title closings recommended by The Real Estate Board of New York, Inc.   
  The following items shall be prorated among the applicable Seller and Buyer as of the Closing Date (on the basis of the actual number of days elapsed over the applicable period), with Buyer being deemed to be the owner of the Properties during the entire day on the Closing Date and being entitled to receive all operating income of the Properties, and being obligated to pay all operating expenses of the Properties, with respect to the Closing Date:  
  (a)   Real Estate and Property Taxes  .  All non-delinquent real estate and personal property taxes and assessments on the Properties for the current tax year that are due and payable following the Closing Date.  The applicable Seller shall be responsible for the payment of any real estate and personal property taxes and assessments that are delinquent before Closing with respect to each Constituent Property.  Taxes relating to the period prior to the Closing Date that are not due and payable until after the Closing Date shall be prorated as of the Closing Date based on the latest available tax bill.  In no event shall either Seller be charged with or be responsible for any increase in the taxes on any Constituent Property resulting from the sale of such Constituent Property contemplated by this Agreement, any change in use of the Properties on or after the Closing Date, or from any improvements made or leases entered into on or after the Closing Date.  If any assessments on any Constituent Property are payable in installments, then the installment allocable to the current  
  
   26 

period shall be prorated (with Buyer being allocated the obligation to pay any installments due on or after the Closing Date). 
  (b)   Rent and Security Deposits  .  Subject to the provisions of Section 5.4.2(h), all fixed and additional rentals under the Leases, security deposits (except as hereinafter provided), and other tenant charges.  Each Seller shall deliver or provide a credit in an amount equal to all prepaid rentals for periods after the Closing Date and all refundable cash security deposits (to the extent the foregoing were made by tenants under the Leases and are not applied or forfeited prior to the Closing) to Buyer on the Closing Date.  A list of the unapplied tenant security deposits under the Leases as of the Effective Date is set forth on   Schedule 5.4.1(b)  .  Rents with respect to Non-Buyer Leases that are delinquent (or payable but unpaid) as of the Closing Date shall not be prorated on the Closing Date.  Rather, Buyer shall cause any such delinquent rent (or payable but unpaid rent) for Non-Buyer Leases for the period prior to Closing to be remitted to the applicable Seller if, as, and when collected.  The applicable Seller shall receive a credit in the amount of any delinquent rent (or payable but unpaid rent) due as of the Closing Date under any Leases with the Buyer or its affiliates.  At Closing, each Seller shall deliver to Buyer a schedule of all such delinquent or payable but unpaid rent.  Additionally, there shall be no proration of any rent that a tenant under a Non-Buyer Lease delivers to either Buyer or a Seller and that such tenant has identified, at the time of such delivery, as constituting payment or rent due for a month or other period prior to the month in which the Closing occurs (   Identified Pre-Closing Rent   ).  If Buyer receives any such Identified Pre-Closing Rent, Buyer shall cause such Identified Pre-Closing Rent to be remitted to the applicable Seller if, as, and when collected.  Until the date that is twelve (12) months after the Closing, Buyer shall include such delinquencies (or unpaid amounts) in its normal billing and shall pursue the collection thereof in good faith after the Closing Date (but Buyer shall not be required to litigate or declare a default under any Lease or pursue any other action or remedy in connection with the recovery from tenants of such delinquencies or other unpaid amounts).  To the extent Buyer receives payment of rents (or income in connection with other tenant charges) on or after the Closing Date other than Identified Pre-Closing Rent, such payments shall be applied first toward any rent (or other tenant charge) for the month in which the Closing occurs then to any other rent (or other tenant charge) currently owed to Buyer in connection with the applicable Lease or other document for which such payments are received, and then to any delinquent rents (or other tenant charges) owed to either Seller, with such Seller s share thereof being promptly delivered to such Seller; provided, however, that any year-end or similar reconciliation payment shall be allocated as hereinafter provided.  Buyer may not waive any delinquent  
  
   27 

(or unpaid) rents or modify a Lease so as to reduce or otherwise affect amounts owed thereunder for any period in which either Seller is entitled to receive a share of charges or amounts without first obtaining such Seller s written consent.  Each Seller hereby reserves the right to pursue any remedy for damages against any tenant owing delinquent rents and any other amounts to such Seller (but shall not be entitled to terminate any Lease or any tenant s right to possession), provided that such Seller shall not exercise any such remedy for a period of two (2) months after the Closing except in connection with the recovery from tenants of taxes or assessments relating to any period prior to the Closing Date (the    Pre-Closing Tax Collection Remedies   ).  Buyer shall reasonably cooperate with each Seller, at no out-of-pocket cost to Buyer, in any collection efforts hereunder, including such Seller s Pre-Closing Tax Collection Remedies, but shall not be required to litigate or declare a default under any Lease.  With respect to delinquent or other uncollected rents and any other amounts or other rights of any kind respecting tenants who are no longer tenants of a Constituent Property as of the Closing Date, the applicable Seller shall retain all of the rights relating thereto. 
  (c) Payments required to be paid by tenants under Leases for such tenants  shares of property taxes and assessments, insurance, common area maintenance, and other expenses of the Properties are collectively referred to herein as    Reimbursable Tenant Expenses   .  Reimbursable Tenant Expenses shall be determined in accordance with the Leases, including without limitation any Lease provisions that provide for the adjustment of Reimbursable Tenant Expenses based on occupancy changes (  i.e.  ,  gross-up  provisions).  In addition, to the extent that a Lease provides for base year amounts for operating expenses or taxes, such base year amounts shall be prorated in determining Reimbursable Tenant Expenses with respect to such Lease.  Each Seller s  share  of Reimbursable Tenant Expenses for the calendar year in which Closing occurs (the    Closing Year   ) shall be determined in accordance with Section 5.4.2(a) hereof.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, there shall be no proration of any such Reimbursable Tenant Expenses that are delinquent as of Closing.  Rather, until the date that is twelve (12) months after the Closing, Buyer shall include such delinquencies (or unpaid amounts) in its normal billing and shall pursue the collection thereof in good faith after the Closing Date (but Buyer shall not be required to litigate or declare a default under any Lease or pursue any other action or remedy in connection with the recovery from tenants of Reimbursable Tenant Expenses relating to any period prior to the Closing Date). 
  (d)   Utilities and Services  .  Buyer and Sellers hereby acknowledge and agree that the amounts of all telephone, electric, sewer, water, gas, steam and other utility bills, trash removal bills, janitorial and maintenance  
  
   28 

service bills and all other operating and administrative expenses relating to the Properties and allocable to the period prior to the Closing Date (other than such items which are the obligation of and directly paid by a tenant under its Lease) shall be determined and paid by Sellers before Closing, if possible, or shall be paid thereafter by Sellers or adjusted between Buyer and Sellers immediately after the same have been determined.  Buyer (with cooperation of Sellers) shall cause all utilities at the Properties to be placed in Buyer's name as of the Closing Date, and where necessary, post deposits with the utility companies.  Each Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cause all utility meters to be read as of the Closing Date.  Each Seller shall be entitled to recover any and all deposits held by any utility company as of the Closing Date.  All charges for utilities shall be prorated by the parties outside of the Closing escrow contemplated herein within sixty (60) days after the Closing Date. 
  (e)   Leasing Costs  .  Seller shall be responsible for the payment of all Leasing Costs incurred or payable at any time with respect to or in connection with any Non-Buyer Leases entered into prior to the Effective Date to the extent such Leasing Costs remain unpaid as of the Closing Date (   Seller Leasing Costs   ).  If the Closing occurs, Buyer shall be responsible for the payment (or, in the case of any amount payable prior to Closing, the reimbursement to such Seller) of all Leasing Costs incurred in connection with (i) all Leases with Buyer or any of its affiliates (whether or not such Leasing Costs are incurred prior to or after the Effective Date), (ii) any New Leases entered into in accordance with the terms hereof after the Effective Date, (iii) agreements entered into during the Escrow Period in accordance with this Agreement to renew, extend, expand, or otherwise amend Leases or New Leases and (iv) any renewals, extensions, or expansions of, or the exercise of any other option under any Leases or New Leases exercised by tenants from and after the Effective Date.  In addition, Buyer shall take the Leases subject to any contractual  free rent  periods, subject to the first sentence of this clause (e) (other than such Leasing Costs that constitute  free rent  applicable to renewals, extensions or otherwise Buyer s responsibility under the remaining provisions of this clause (e)).  If, as of the Closing Date, a Seller shall have paid any Leasing Costs for which Buyer is responsible pursuant to the foregoing provisions, Buyer shall reimburse such Seller therefor at Closing.  For the avoidance of doubt, payment by Seller of Seller Leasing Costs shall not be subject to the Basket Limitation and Cap Limitation set forth in Section 10.2.2  
  (f)   Capital Projects  .    Schedule 5.4.1(f)   attached hereto lists each of the pending capital expenditures, construction work or repair projects in progress at the Properties that (i) Buyer agrees to assume as of the Closing Date or (ii) is required to correct a Violation, ensure compliance with a  
  
   29 

Law, address an emergency, or correct an unsafe condition (each a    Pending Capital Project   ), it being understood that the completion of the Pending Capital Projects by Sellers shall not be a condition precedent to Buyer s obligations to proceed with the Closing under this Agreement on the Closing.  For each Pending Capital Project at a Constituent Property that is not completed prior to the Closing Date (each such Contract being referred to herein as an    Uncompleted Capex Contract   ), (i) Seller shall provide Buyer at the Closing with reasonable evidence of the remaining work to be completed, amounts that remain to be paid under any Uncompleted Capex Contract and amounts that have been actually paid by or on behalf of Seller under any such Uncompleted Capex Contract(s) or otherwise prior to the Closing with a breakdown of any retainage under such Uncompleted Capex Contract as of December 31, 2016, (ii) the applicable Seller shall assign to Buyer at Closing that Uncompleted Capex Contract pertaining to its respective Constituent Properties, (iii) Buyer shall assume at Closing that Uncompleted Capex Contract and full responsibility solely for the obligations under that Uncompleted Capex Contract accruing, arising or attributable to the period after December 31, 2016, including, without limitation, responsibility for performing and completing the work set forth therein, (iv) in such event, Seller shall receive a credit to the Purchase Price equal to the costs incurred or paid by or on behalf of Seller after December 31, 2016 with respect to such Capital Expenditures Work in excess of the amounts set forth in   Schedule 5.4.1(f)   to be spent by such date and (v) Sellers shall be responsible for all amounts that accrue prior to December 31, 2016 (including any retainage attributable to work performed and otherwise paid for prior to December 31, 2016) and the Purchase Price shall be adjusted therefor.   
  (g)   Employees  . Buyer shall be responsible for all salaries, wages, vacation pay, bonuses, severance and any other fringe benefits (including, without limitation, social security, unemployment compensation, employee disability insurance, sick pay, welfare and pension fund contributions, payments and deposits, if any) (   Employee Costs   ) of all Transferred Employees incurred or first arising after the Closing.  Seller shall be responsible for Employee Costs (i) of all Transferred Employees incurred or first arising on or prior to the Closing and (ii) of all Employees that are not Transferred Employees incurred or first arising on or prior to the Closing and (iii) resulting from the termination of employment of any Employee that is not a Transferred Employee as of the Closing. 
  5.4.2        Proration of Reimbursable Tenant Expenses and Percentage Rent. 
  (a)   For the Closing Year  .  In order to enable Buyer to make any year-end reconciliations of tenant reimbursements of Reimbursable Tenant  
  
   30 

Expenses for the Closing Year after the end thereof, each Seller shall determine in accordance with Section 5.4.1(c) hereof the Reimbursable Tenant Expenses actually paid or incurred by such Seller for the portion of the Closing Year during which such Seller owned its respective Constituent Properties (   Seller s Actual Reimbursable Tenant Expenses   ) and the tenant reimbursements for such Reimbursable Tenant Expenses actually paid to such Seller by tenants for the portion of the Closing Year during which such Seller owned each Constituent Property (   Seller s Actual Tenant Reimbursements   ).  On or before the date that is one hundred twenty (120) days after the end of the Closing Year, each Seller shall deliver to Buyer a reconciliation statement (each a    Seller s Reconciliation Statement   ) setting forth (i) such Seller s Actual Reimbursable Tenant Expenses, (ii) such Seller s Actual Tenant Reimbursements, and (iii) a calculation of the difference, if any, between the two (  i.e.  , establishing that such Seller s Actual Reimbursable Tenant Expenses were either more or less than or equal to such Seller s Actual Tenant Reimbursements).  Any amount due to a Seller pursuant to the foregoing calculation (in the event such Seller s Actual Tenant Reimbursements are less than such Seller s Actual Reimbursable Tenant Expenses) or due to Buyer (in the event such Seller s Actual Tenant Reimbursements are more than such Seller s Actual Reimbursable Tenant Expenses), as the case may be, shall be paid by Buyer to such Seller or by such Seller to Buyer, as the case may be, within thirty (30) days after delivery of the applicable Seller s Reconciliation Statement to Buyer.  If Buyer is paid any such amount by a Seller, Buyer thereafter shall be obligated to promptly remit the applicable portion to the particular tenants entitled thereto.  Buyer shall indemnify, defend, and hold Sellers and the other  Seller-Related Parties  (as defined below) harmless from and against any losses, costs, claims, damages, and liabilities, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith, arising out of or resulting from Buyer s failure to remit any amounts actually received from either Seller to tenants in accordance with the provisions hereof.  If Buyer has transferred its interest in any Constituent Property to a successor-in-interest or assignee prior to such date, then, on or before the transfer of its interest in such Constituent Property, Buyer shall (i) in writing expressly obligate such successor-in-interest or assignee to be bound directly to the applicable Seller by the provisions of this Section, and (ii) deliver written notice of such transfer to Sellers, and thereafter Sellers shall make the deliveries specified above to Buyer s successor-in-interest or assignee.  Each Seller s Reconciliation Statement shall be final and binding for purposes of this Agreement. 
  (b)   For Prior Calendar Years  . Each Seller shall be responsible for the reconciliation with its tenants of Reimbursable Tenant Expenses and  
  
   31 

tenant reimbursements thereof for any calendar year prior to the Closing Year.  If the amount of tenant reimbursements collected by a Seller for such prior years is less than the amount of Reimbursable Tenant Expenses paid by such Seller for such period (or less than the amount that such Seller is entitled to recover under the terms of the Leases), then such Seller shall be entitled to bill such tenants directly therefor and to retain any amounts remitted by such tenants in connection therewith.  If the amount of tenant reimbursements collected by such Seller for such prior calendar year exceeds the amount of Reimbursable Tenant Expenses paid by such Seller with respect to such period (or the amount that such Seller is entitled to recover under the terms of the Leases), then, to the extent required under the terms of the Leases, such Seller shall remit such excess amounts to the applicable tenants.  Seller shall indemnify, defend, and hold Buyer harmless from and against any losses, costs, claims, damages, and liabilities, including, without limitation, reasonable attorneys  fees and expenses incurred in connection therewith, arising out of or resulting from either Sellers failure to remit any amounts actually received from Buyer to tenants in accordance with the provisions hereof.  In connection with the foregoing, Sellers shall be permitted to make and retain copies of all Leases and all billings concerning tenant reimbursements for the Closing Year and for such prior years, and Buyer covenants and agrees to provide each Seller with reasonable access to the books and records pertaining to such tenant reimbursements, and to otherwise cooperate with each Seller (at no material out-of-pocket cost to Buyer) for the purpose of enabling each Seller to adequately respond to any claim by tenants for reimbursement of tenant reimbursements previously paid by such tenants.  The provisions of this Section 5.4.2(b) shall survive the Closing. 
  (c)   Percentage Rent  . If any tenant of any Constituent Property is obligated to pay percentage rent based upon the calendar year or lease year in which the date of Closing occurs (the    Percentage Rent Year   ), Buyer shall, within thirty (30) days after receipt of such payment with respect to the Percentage Rent Year, remit to the applicable Seller the pro-rata portion that is based on the number of days that elapsed between the commencement date of the Percentage Rent Year for each such tenant and the Closing Date, in relation to the total number of days in such Percentage Rent Year.  If either Seller has received payments of percentage rent based on any Percentage Rent Year in which the date of Closing occurs, in excess of such Seller s share as calculated as set forth above in this Section 5.4.2(c), it shall promptly pay such excess to Buyer.  
  (d)   Fuel  . The value of fuel stored on the Property by Sellers, if any, at the applicable Seller's most recent cost, including any taxes, on the basis  
  
   32 

of a reading made within ten (10) business days prior to the Closing by the applicable Seller's supplier, shall be paid for by Buyer.  
  (e)   Contracts  . Charges and payments under Contracts assumed by the Buyer at Closing, or permitted renewals or replacements thereof. 
  (f)   Permit     Fees  . Fees and other amounts payable under the Permits and Licenses assigned to Buyer.  
  (g)        Inventory  . The value of all inventory and supplies in unopened containers usable in connection with the management, maintenance or operation of the Improvements and located on the Properties on the date of Closing, if any, at the applicable Seller's most recent cost, including any taxes, shall be paid for by the Buyer. 
  (h)   Home Depot Ground Lease  . Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, there shall be no prorations or adjustments with respect to any fixed rent or additional rent (including prepaid rent) received by Sellers under that certain Ground Lease dated September 7, 2006 by and between Eastview Holdings LLC and Home Depot U.S.A., Inc.  
  (i) Any other items of operating income or operating expense that are customarily apportioned between the parties in real estate closings of comparable commercial properties in the metropolitan area where the Properties are located, as may be applicable; however, there will be no prorations for debt service or insurance premiums (because Buyer is not acquiring or assuming such Seller s financing or insurance). 
  5.4.3        General Provisions  . 
  (a) For purposes of calculating prorations, Buyer shall be deemed to be the owner of the Properties, and therefore entitled to the income therefrom and responsible for the expenses thereof for the entire day upon which the Closing occurs, and thereafter all such prorations shall be made on the basis of the actual number of days of the month which shall have elapsed as of the day of the Closing and based upon the actual number of days in the month and a three hundred sixty five (365) day year.   
  (b) Sellers and Buyer agree to use reasonable efforts to calculate all adjustments required under this Section 5.4 (and to make the adjustment payments resulting from such calculations) with respect to those items of income and expense which are ascertainable on the Closing Date by no later than twenty (20) days after the Closing Date.  Each other item of income and expense which is subject to adjustment under this Section 5.4 but which is not ascertainable on the Closing Date will be adjusted retroactive to the Closing Date, and the payment made on such adjustment  
  
   33 

within sixty (60) days after the date that such adjustment becomes ascertainable,   i.e.  , the date by which each party, in its good faith business judgment, has sufficient information to make such adjustment.   
  (c) If any prorations or apportionments made under this Section 5.4 shall prove to be incorrect for any reason, then any party shall be entitled to an adjustment to correct the same.  Any item that cannot be finally prorated because of the unavailability of information shall be tentatively prorated on the basis of the best data then available and re-prorated when the information is available.  The parties agree that each party shall have the right following Closing, on reasonable written notice to the other, from time to time to review the books and records of such other party pertaining solely to the operations of the Properties and limited to such portions of the books and records necessary to confirm the amounts of adjustments payable to Sellers and/or Buyer following the Closing.  Buyer and Sellers shall cooperate as necessary following the Closing in order to promptly and in good faith discharge their respective obligations under this Section 5.4.   
  (d) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary set forth herein, all re-prorations contemplated by this Agreement shall be completed within six (6) months after Closing (subject to extension for any re-prorations with respect to Leasing Costs or as necessary due to the unavailability of final information, but in no event to exceed one (1) year after Closing).  Notwithstanding the foregoing, any claim for an adjustment under   Section 5.4   will be valid if made in writing with reasonable specificity within one (1) year after the Closing Date, except in the case of items of adjustment which at the expiration of such period are subject to pending litigation or administrative proceedings.  Claims with respect to items of adjustment which are subject to litigation or administrative proceedings will be valid if made on or before the later to occur of (i) the date that is one (1) year after the Closing Date and (ii) the date that is one hundred eighty (180) days after a final order shall have issued in such litigation or administrative hearing.  The parties hereto shall use good faith efforts to resolve any disputed claims promptly. 
  (e) The obligations of Sellers and Buyer under this Section 5.4 shall survive the Closing. 
  6.   Condemnation or Destruction of Property  .  If, after the Effective Date but prior to the Closing Date, either any portion of the Properties is taken pursuant to eminent domain proceedings or any of the Improvements are damaged or destroyed by any casualty not arising from or relating to an action or inaction of Buyer or any of Buyer s subsidiaries or their respective agents, the applicable Seller shall be required to give Buyer prompt written notice of the same after the applicable Seller s actual discovery of the same, but shall have  
  
   34 

no obligation to cause any direct or indirect member, partner, or owner of a Seller to contribute capital to the applicable Seller or any other entity, or to repair or replace (or cause to be repaired or replaced) any such damage, destruction, or taken property.  The applicable Seller shall, upon consummation of the transaction herein provided, assign to Buyer (except to the extent any condemnation proceeds or insurance proceeds are attributable to lost rents or other items applicable to any period prior to the Closing) all claims of the applicable Seller respecting any condemnation or casualty insurance coverage, as applicable, and all condemnation proceeds or proceeds from any such casualty insurance received by the applicable Seller on account of any casualty at the applicable Constituent Property (except to the extent required for collection costs or repairs by the applicable Seller prior to the Closing Date), as applicable.  In connection with any assignment of insurance proceeds hereunder, Sellers shall credit Buyer with an amount equal to the applicable deductible amount under the applicable Seller s insurance (but not more than the amount by which (x) the cost as of the Closing Date to repair the damage is greater than (y) the insurance proceeds (less the deductible) and coverage to be assigned to Buyer).  In the event (A) the condemnation award or the estimated cost of repair of damage to the Properties on account of a casualty, as applicable, shall exceed ten percent (10%) of the Purchase Price, or (B) an uninsured casualty in excess of three percent (3%) of the Purchase Price, provided Sellers shall have the right, but not the obligation, to elect to credit Buyer at Closing with an amount equal to the cost to repair such uninsured casualty, and if Sellers elect to credit Buyer at Closing, then Buyer shall not have the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to this clause (B), or (C) with respect to a condemnation to the Properties only, such condemnation would result in the Properties (following restoration) violating any Laws or failing to comply with zoning or any recorded covenants, conditions, or restrictions affecting the Properties, then, except as otherwise provided in clause (B) of this sentence, Buyer may, at its option, terminate this Agreement by notice to Sellers, given on or before the Closing Date, whereupon Buyer shall receive a return of the Deposit less the Independent Consideration, which shall be paid to Sellers (and no party hereto shall have any further obligation in connection herewith except under those provisions that expressly survive a termination of this Agreement). 
  7.   Representations, Warranties, and Covenants  . 
  7.1   Representations and Warranties of Sellers  .  Each Seller, individually and severally (and not jointly and not jointly and severally) with respect to only itself and its Constituent Properties, hereby represents and warrants to Buyer that, except as disclosed in the Due Diligence Materials: 
  7.1.1        Leases; Brokerage Agreements  .   
  (a) Sellers have delivered or made available to Buyer true, correct and complete copies of the Non-Buyer Leases (including all amendments, modifications, and supplements thereto) in existence as of the Effective Date. A true, correct and complete list of the Non-Buyer Leases (including all amendments and supplements thereto and all subleases consented to  
  
   35 

by either Seller) in existence as of the Effective Date is set forth in Lease Schedule.   
  (b) As of the Effective Date, (i) there are no leases, licenses, franchises, concessions, tenancies or other occupancy rights granted or consented to by such Seller to any party other than the Leases; (ii) to such Seller s knowledge, all of the Non-Buyer Leases are in full force and effect; (iii) none of the Non-Buyer Leases has been materially amended except as set forth in the Lease Schedule; (iv) neither such Seller nor any tenant under a Non-Buyer Lease is in monetary default or, to Seller s knowledge, is in material non-monetary default under any of the Leases, except as set forth on   Schedule 7.1.1(b  )  ; and (v) neither such Seller nor any tenant under a Non-Buyer Lease has given written notice of a default or termination under any of the Non-Buyer Leases, which continues to be outstanding, except as set forth on   Schedule 7.1.1(b)  .      
  (c) As of the Effective Date, no base rent, fixed rent or additional rent has been paid more than one (1) month in advance by any tenant under any Existing Lease that is a Non-Buyer Lease, and except as set forth in   Schedule 7.1.1(b)  ,   such Seller has not received any written notices by any tenant under any Existing Lease that is a Non-Buyer Lease asserting a default by such Seller under such Existing Lease that is a Non-Buyer Lease, or a defense or off-set to rent or additional rent by any such tenant based on an allegation that such Seller is in default of any of its obligations as landlord under any Existing Lease that is a Non-Buyer Lease, in both cases which default remains uncured;  
  (d) The only written agreements to which such Seller is a party for the payment of leasing commissions in connection with the Leases as of the Effective Date are those listed on   Schedule 7.1.1(d)   (the "  Brokerage Agreements  ") and no amounts are owing or outstanding thereunder as of the Effective Date, and no claims for leasing commissions have been made by any party under any such Brokerage Agreements.  Such Seller has delivered or made available to Buyer true, correct and complete copies of any Brokerage Agreements (together with any amendments or supplements thereto) that would be binding on Buyer following the Closing. 
  (e)        Attached hereto as   Schedule 7.1.1(e)  , is a true, correct and complete list of rent arrearages with respect to Leases, as of December 20, 2016.   
  (f)        There are no unpaid Leasing Costs for any Non-Buyer Leases which are either currently due and payable or earned (but not yet due or payable) except as set forth on   Schedule 7.1.1(f)  . 
  
   36 

7.1.2   Litigation  .    Schedule 7.1.2   hereto contains a correct and complete list of litigation commenced by or against such Seller or Management Company currently pending in connection with any of the Constituent Properties of which such Seller or Management Company has received actual written notice (exclusive of tort and other liability proceeding for which insurance coverage is available).  Other than litigation disclosed in   Schedule 7.1.2   hereto, to such Seller s knowledge, there is no pending and served (nor has such Seller received any written notice of any threatened) action, litigation, condemnation, or other legal proceeding against a Constituent Property or against such Seller with respect to such Constituent Property that, if determined adversely to such Seller or against such Constituent Property (as applicable), would materially and adversely affect such Constituent Property or the ability of such Seller to perform its obligations hereunder. 
  7.1.3   Compliance  .  Except as disclosed in   Schedule 7.1.2   hereto or, following the Effective Date, to the extent arising from the actions or inactions of Buyer or an affiliate of Buyer, such Seller has not received any written notice from any Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over any Constituent Property of any material Violations with respect to such Constituent Property that have not been cured or dismissed.   
  7.1.4   Contracts  .   
  (a) Seller has delivered or made available to Buyer true, correct and complete copies of the material Existing Contracts in effect as of the Effective Date (and excluding any one-time purchase orders or similar agreements).    Schedule 7.1.4-I   attached hereto is a true, correct and complete list of the material Existing Contracts in effect as of the Effective Date (and excluding any one-time purchase orders or similar agreements).    Schedule 7.1.4-II   attached hereto is a true, correct and complete list of the Must-Assume Contract to which the Property is subject and which would remain in effect after the Closing Date.   
  (b) Such Seller has not entered into any service or equipment leasing contracts relating to a Constituent Property that will be binding on Buyer or such Constituent Property after the Closing, except for the Must-Assume Contracts disclosed in   Schedule 7.1.4   hereto (subject to any restrictions on assignment contained therein).   
  (c) All material amounts payable by such Seller under the Must-Assume Contracts have been paid through the last date due, and neither Seller has given or received written notice of a default or termination under any of the Must-Assume Contracts, which continues to be outstanding.  
  7.1.5   Due Authority  . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by such Seller, is the legal, valid and binding obligation of such  
  
   37 

Seller, and does not violate any provision of any agreement or judicial order to which such Seller is a party or to which such Seller is subject.  All agreements, instruments and documents herein provided to be executed or to be caused to be executed by such Seller which are to be delivered at Closing will, at the time of Closing, be duly authorized, executed, and delivered by and are binding upon such Seller, and will not violate any provision of any agreement or judicial order to which such Seller is a party or to which Seller is subject.  Such Seller is a Delaware limited liability company, duly organized and validly existing and in good standing under the Laws of such state, and is duly authorized and qualified to do all things required of it under this Agreement.  Such Seller has the capacity and authority to enter into this Agreement and consummate the transactions herein provided without the consent or joinder of any other party (except as otherwise may be set forth in this Agreement). 
  7.1.6   No Conflict  . Neither the execution and delivery of this Agreement by such Seller nor any agreement, document, or instrument executed or to be executed or to be caused to be executed in connection with this Agreement by such Seller, nor anything provided in or contemplated by this Agreement or any such other agreement, document, or instrument, nor the performance of the obligations of such Seller hereunder or thereunder (i) will result in the violation of any law or any provision of the organizational documents of such Seller or will conflict with any agreement or any order or decree of any court or governmental instrumentality of any nature by which such Seller is bound or (ii) except as otherwise set forth in this Agreement, will result in the acceleration or maturity of any agreement, document, or instrument affecting or relating to such Seller or the Properties. 
  7.1.7   Insolvency  .  Such Seller is not a debtor under any bankruptcy proceedings, voluntary or involuntary, and has not made an assignment for the benefit of its creditors, filed any voluntary petition in bankruptcy or, to such Seller's knowledge, suffered the filing of an involuntary petition by such Seller's creditors, suffered the appointment of a receiver to take possession of all, or substantially all, of such Seller's assets, suffered the attachment or other judicial seizure of all, or substantially all, of Seller's assets, admitted in writing its inability to pay its debts as they generally come due or made an offer of settlement, extension or composition to its creditors generally. 
  7.1.8   Employees  .   
  (a) Sellers do not employ any employees, and Sellers have provided Buyer a complete list of Employees at any Constituent Property, including, as applicable, for each: name, position, date of hire, job classification, and current compensation paid or payable. 
  
   38 

(b) Neither Sellers, the Management Company or any of its affiliates are party to any collective bargaining agreements or any other labor-related agreements or arrangements with any labor union or labor organizations with respect to the Employees. 
  (c) Except as set forth on   Schedule 7.1.8(c)  , with respect to any Constituent Property:  
  (i) There are no employment agreements or non-compete agreements applicable to any Transferred Employee on the one hand and Seller, its affiliate, or Management Company on the other hand. 
  (ii) Each Seller, its affiliates, and Management Company are in compliance in all material respects with any applicable labor and employment Laws governing the Constituent Properties, and none of Seller, its affiliates, nor Management Company has received written notice of any actual or alleged material violations of any applicable labor and employment Laws, including without limitation any laws respecting labor relations, employment discrimination, disability rights or benefits, occupational health and safety, worker s compensation, affirmative action, unemployment compensation, leaves of absence, plant closures, mass layoffs, immigration and wages and hours that remains uncured. 
  (iii) There are no litigations or lawsuits pending or, to such Seller s knowledge, threatened in writing against such Seller, its affiliate, or Management Company, regarding labor and employment matters at the Constituent Properties.  To Seller s Knowledge, there are no Governmental Entity audits, examinations or investigations pending or threatened in writing against such Seller, its affiliates, or Management Company regarding labor and employment matters at the Constituent Properties, including any notice of any unfair labor practice charge or complaint pending or threatened before the National Labor Relations Board or Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, or any similar Governmental Entity, that remains uncured. 
  7.1.9   Foreign Person  . Such Seller is not a foreign person within the meaning of Section 1445(f) of the Code.  
  7.1.10        Telecommunications Contracts  .  Except as listed on   Schedule 7.1.10   there are no telecommunications agreements in effect as of the Effective Date (the    Telecommunications Contracts   ).  All material amounts payable by such Seller, if any, under the Telecommunication Contracts have been paid through the last date due and neither Seller has given written notice of a  
  
   39 

default or termination under any of the telecommunications agreements, which continues to be outstanding. 
  7.1.11        Condemnation  .  Such Seller has not received any written notice of any and to, such Seller's knowledge, there are no existing, pending or contemplated condemnation, eminent domain or similar proceeding with respect to the Constituent Properties, except as disclosed on   Schedule 7.1.11   attached hereto.    
  7.1.12        Tax Appeal Proceedings  .  Except as set forth on   Schedule 7.1.12  , Seller has not filed, and has not retained anyone to file, notices of protest against, or to commence actions to review real property tax assessments against the Real Property which are currently pending.   Seller has delivered or otherwise made available to Buyer copies of all material filings related to the items listed on   Schedule 7.1.12  . 
  7.1.13        Purchase Rights  .  Except as set forth on   Schedule 7.1.13   or reflected in the Preliminary Title Report, there are no rights of first offer to purchase, rights of first refusal to purchase or purchase options pertaining to the purchase of any Constituent Property.  
  7.1.14        Fixtures  .  The Personal Property shall be transferred to Buyer  free and clear of all liens and encumbrances at Closing.  
  7.1.15        Insurance Policies  .   Schedule 7.1.15     contains a correct and complete list of the property and casualty insurance policies and liability insurance policies maintained by such Seller with respect to the Constituent Properties as of the Effective Date (the    Insurance Policies   ). 
  7.1.16        Environmental Claims  . Except to the extent arising from the actions or inactions of Buyer or an affiliate of Buyer, neither Seller has not received any written notices from any Governmental Entity of any Violation of any federal or state environmental laws that are applicable to any of the Constituent Properties that remain uncured, or informing such Seller of any governmental investigation, audit, cleanup, abatement or containment with respect to any environmental matters affecting any of the Constituent Properties that remain uncured. 
  7.1.17        Required Capital Improvements  . To such Seller's knowledge, such Seller has received no written notice from any governmental body requiring such Seller to make any material repairs or changes to the Constituent Properties or the Improvements to comply with legal requirements, except for written notices with which such Seller has complied in all material respects.    
  
   40 

7.2   Representations and Warranties of Buyer  . Buyer hereby represents and warrants to Sellers that: 
  7.2.1   Due Authority  . This Agreement has been duly authorized, executed and delivered by Buyer and all agreements, instruments and documents herein provided to be executed by Buyer on the Closing Date will, at the time of Closing, be duly authorized, executed, and delivered by Buyer and will be binding obligations of Buyer; Buyer is duly organized and validly existing and in good standing under the laws of the jurisdiction of organization. 
  7.2.2   No Conflict  . To Buyer s knowledge, (i) this Agreement does not violate any provision of any agreement or judicial order to which Buyer is a party or to which Buyer is subject and (ii) all documents to be executed by Buyer which are to be delivered at Closing will not, at the time of Closing, violate any provision of any agreement or judicial order to which Buyer is a party or to which Buyer is subject. 
  7.2.3   Insolvency  . Buyer is not a debtor under any bankruptcy proceedings, voluntary or involuntary, and has not made an assignment for the benefit of its creditors. 
  7.3   Survival  . The representations, warranties, and covenants and all other obligations, provisions and liabilities under this Agreement or any of the Closing Documents (including any cause of action by reason of a breach thereof) shall survive the Closing for a period of 180 days after the Closing Date unless otherwise expressly provided in this Agreement; provided, however, that, all of Section 8 and Section 10 shall survive indefinitely, and any other Section of this Agreement that is expressly stated to survive the Closing for a different period of time or indefinitely (and only such Sections), shall survive the Closing for such different period of time or indefinitely (as applicable).  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, Sellers shall have no liability, and Buyer shall make no claim against either Seller, for (and Buyer shall be deemed to have waived any failure of a condition hereunder by reason of) a failure of any condition or a breach of any representation or warranty, covenant, or other obligation of either Seller under this Agreement or any Closing Document executed by either Seller (including for this purpose any matter that would have constituted a breach of either Seller s representations and warranties had they been made on the Closing Date) in the event Buyer (x) has knowledge prior to Closing of a condition, statement of facts or other matter that constitutes or results in such breach, (y) has the right to terminate this Agreement pursuant to Section 4.1.3 and (z) nonetheless proceeds with the Closing. 
  7.4        Knowledge  . 
  7.4.1   Definition  . When a statement is made under this Agreement to the    knowledge    or    actual knowledge    of a party (or other similar phrase), it shall mean that none of the Designated Representatives of such party has any  
  
   41 

actual knowledge (without further investigation) of any facts indicating that such statement is not true.  Each Designated Representative shall be deemed to have actual knowledge of any matter received by such Designated Representative in writing.  None of the Designated Representatives shall have any personal liability under this Agreement. 
  7.4.2   Designated Representatives  . The    Designated Representatives    are limited to the following individuals: 
  (a) for Sellers:  Denis Sullivan, Kevin Slein, Mark Anema and Peter Zimmar; and  
  (b) for Buyer:  George Fraley, Salvatore Colletti and Joanne Deyo. 
  7.5   Interim Covenants of Sellers  . From the Effective Date until the Closing Date or the sooner termination of this Agreement, each Seller, individually and severally (and not jointly and not jointly and severally) with respect to only itself and its Constituent Properties, hereby agrees as follows: 
  7.5.1   Maintenance/Operation  . Such Seller shall, at its cost and expense, manage, maintain and operate each Constituent Property in materially the same manner as it has managed, maintained and operated each such Constituent Property through the Effective Date, subject to ordinary wear and tear and further subject to the casualty and condemnation provisions in this Agreement.  Subject to force majeure, Seller shall continue to perform all Pending Capital Projects and shall make all repairs and replacements reasonably required to prevent material damage to the Constituent Properties and to protect the health and safety of tenants, visitors and the public (both inside and out of the Constituent Properties) and to comply with law and avoid Violations, in each case in materially the same manner as it has managed, maintained and operated each Constituent Property through the Effective Date.  Such Seller will perform all material obligations of landlord under the Leases in and enforce the Leases against the tenants thereunder in accordance with their respective terms, in all material respects.  Subject to the provisions of Section 4.3.4, if any new Violation is issued in writing by a Governmental Entity and received by Seller during the Escrow Period with respect to the Constituent Properties and does not arise from the actions or inactions of Buyer or an affiliate of Buyer (an    Escrow Period Violation   ), Seller shall use commercially reasonable efforts to cure such Escrow Period Violations prior to the Closing Date; provided, that a failure by Seller to cure or otherwise remove such Escrow Period Violation shall not be a breach of this Agreement or a condition to Buyer s obligation to proceed with the Closing under this Agreement, and shall not give Buyer any rights to terminate this Agreement.   
  
   42 

7.5.2   Maintain Insurance  .  Such Seller shall, at its cost and expense, until the earlier of the Closing or the termination of this Agreement, maintain the Insurance Policies; provided, however, that such Seller may make commercially reasonable modifications to, or replacements of, such Insurance Policies provided that such modifications or replacements do not materially reduce the insurance coverage or increase deductibles existing as of the Effective Date. 
  7.5.3        Contracts  .   
  (a)        No Seller shall, without the prior written consent of Buyer, enter into, materially modify, or terminate any additional service or equipment leasing contracts or other similar agreements relating to any Constituent Property or materially modify or terminate any of the Contracts; provided, however, that either Seller may modify or terminate any Excluded Contract at any time.  If Buyer fails to notify Sellers in writing of Buyer s objections within ten (10) business days of Buyer s receipt of the proposed modification, termination, or new contract terms (and a request for Buyer s approval), then Buyer shall be deemed to have approved the same.  With respect to any Excluded Contract, Seller shall promptly following the Closing provide a notice of termination (or partial termination with respect to National Service Contracts) to the vendor thereunder with respect to each such Excluded Contract.   
  (b) Notwithstanding anything in Section 7.5.3(a) to the contrary, a Seller may enter into or materially modify any additional service or equipment leasing contract or other similar agreement relating to any Constituent Property or materially modify any of the Contracts without Buyer s consent if (A) such contract or agreement or amendment thereto is necessary as a result of an emergency at any Constituent Property, or (B) in the case of an new contract or agreement, (i) does not require the payment of more than $150,000 in any calendar year, (ii) is terminable on thirty (30) days  or less notice, without penalties, and (iii) is entered into in the course of customary maintenance and repairs at the Constituent Property. 
  7.5.4        Leases  .   
  (a) Such Seller shall not, from and after the Effective Date and until the termination of this Agreement, (i) modify, renew (except pursuant to the exercise by a tenant of a renewal or extension option contained in such tenant's Lease which shall not require the prior written approval of the Buyer), grant any consent to any assignment or sublet , or waive any material rights in writing under the Leases, (ii) terminate any Lease except by reason of a default by the tenant thereunder and then only in accordance with such Seller s past practice or as required by law, (iii) enter into a  
  
   43 

New Lease, or (iv) accept a surrender or consent to the termination or cancellation of any Lease by the tenant thereunder, except to the extent landlord is obligated to do so in accordance with the terms of such Lease or as required by law or arising by reason of a default by the tenant thereunder, in each case described in clauses (i) through (iv), without the prior written approval of Buyer, which approval shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed, and which shall be deemed approved if Buyer fails to respond to a written request for approval made at any time during the term of this Agreement within ten (10) business days after receipt of the request therefor together with a summary of lease terms in reasonable detail, a statement as to the brokerage commission, if any, payable in connection therewith and credit information on the proposed tenant, if the intended action is the execution of a new tenant lease.  If Buyer approves (or is deemed to have approved) of Seller's entering into a New Lease and such lease is thereafter fully executed, then (i) the amount of the brokerage commission specified in Seller's notice, (ii) the cost of any tenant improvements to be performed by the landlord under the terms of the proposed lease, (iii) the amount of any cash work allowances required to be given by the landlord to the tenant under the terms of the proposed lease incurred in connection with such New Lease and (iv) the economic impact of any free rent shall be the responsibility of Buyer and shall be apportioned at the Closing in accordance with the proration provisions herein.  Upon Seller's execution and delivery of any such lease approved by Buyer, the same shall be deemed to be a New Lease for all purposes under this Agreement.   
  (b)        Notwithstanding the foregoing or anything to the contrary contained in this Agreement, each Seller shall terminate or cause to be terminated at or prior to the Closing, at such Seller s sole cost, those certain leases or license agreements set forth on   Schedule 7.5.1(b)   hereto and vacate the space occupied thereunder as of the Closing. 
  (c)        Seller shall provide, at Closing, an update to   Schedule 7.1.1(e)   dated not later than five (5) business days prior to Closing, to reflect an updated list of rent arrearages with respect to the Leases.  
  7.5.5   Encumbrances  .  Such Seller shall not encumber any Constituent Property with any new mortgages, deeds of trust, or other encumbrances except as expressly permitted above without Buyer s consent (which shall not be unreasonably withheld, conditioned, or delayed as to easements, licenses, and similar documents required in the ordinary course of business). 
    
  7.5.6   Estoppels; SNDAs  .   
  
   44 

(a) Promptly following the Effective Date,  Seller shall (i) prepare and deliver to all tenants under Non-Buyer Leases an estoppel certificate in favor of Buyer in the form of   Exhibit  J-1    attached hereto (the    Tenant Estoppel   ), and request each such tenant execute and deliver the Tenant Estoppel to Sellers and Buyer and (ii) prepare and deliver to the contractor, Skanksa, an estoppel certificate in favor of Buyer in the form of   Exhibit  J-2    attached hereto (the    Contractor Estoppel   ), and request Skanska execute and deliver the Contractor Estoppel to Sellers and Buyer.  However, it is expressly understood and agreed that the receipt of one or more Tenant Estoppel and/or Contractor Estoppel shall not be a condition to Buyer s obligation to proceed with the Closing under this Agreement, and the failure to obtain any Tenant Estoppel or Contractor Estoppel shall not entitle Buyer to terminate this Agreement.  Seller shall deliver any executed Tenant Estoppels and Contractor Estoppels it receives to Buyer. 
  (b) Upon the written request of Buyer, such Seller agrees to forward, at no cost to such Seller and solely as an accommodation to Buyer, Buyer s lender s form of Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreement (   SNDA   ) (if any) to each tenant (other than Buyer).  However, it is expressly understood and agreed that the receipt of one or more Subordination, Non-Disturbance and Attornment Agreements in any form executed by tenants shall not be a condition to Buyer s obligation to proceed with the Closing under this Agreement, and the failure to obtain any SNDA shall not entitle Buyer to terminate this Agreement. 
  7.5.7   Personal Property  .  Such Seller agrees not to transfer to any third party or remove any material Personal Property from the Constituent Properties after the Effective Date, except for repair or replacement thereof and except in the case of any termination of this Agreement. 
  7.5.8   Notices from Governmental Entities  . Such Seller shall notify Buyer of, and shall deliver to Buyer a copy of any material written notice such Seller actually receives, on or before the Closing, from any Governmental Entity, concerning the Constituent Properties that has not been previously disclosed to Buyer. 
  7.5.9   Employees  . Seller shall, or cause Management Company or its affiliates to, make available to Buyer, or any management company retained by Buyer, the Employees for purposes of making offers of employment, subject to the terms and conditions that Buyer, or its management company, in Buyer or its management company s sole discretion, as applicable, offers such employee (such Employees, the    Transferred Employees   ).   Employee  
  
   45 

Costs with respect to Employees and Transferred Employees shall be apportioned pursuant to Section 5.4.1(g) hereof. 
  7.6   Mutual Covenants  . 
  7.6.1 Sellers and Buyer shall comply in all material respects with all notice and other requirements under the Displaced Service Employees Protection Law of Westchester County (   DSEPL   ) to the extent applicable, including, without limitation, the requirement by Buyer to offer temporary protection from the loss of employment to any Employees who are protected under the DSEPL. 
  7.6.2 With respect to any Transferred Employees, Buyer shall assume, or cause its management company to assume, all employee liabilities and claims accruing or first arising from and after the Closing.  Sellers or their affiliates shall retain, or cause Management Company (or its affiliates) to retain, all employee liabilities and claims, including any obligations of severance pay, notice, pay, termination benefits, or any other termination pay with respect to: (i) the employment of any Employees that are not Transferred Employees incurred or first arising on or prior to the Closing, (ii) any Transferred Employees incurred or first arising on or prior to Closing; and (iii) the termination of employment of any Employee in connection with the Closing. 
  7.6.3 Buyer shall not be required to assume any Contract (other than the Must-Assume Contracts)  at Closing.  Effective as of the Closing Date, Seller, at Seller s sole cost and expense, shall terminate any Contracts that Buyer does not elect to assume by written notification to Seller prior to the date that is thirty (30) days from the Effective Date.  If Buyer does not notify Seller prior to the expiration of such thirty (30) day period, Buyer shall be deemed to have elected that Seller terminate all such Contract(s).  Any such Contracts terminated pursuant to this Section 7.6.3 shall be treated as Excluded Contracts under this Agreement. 
  8.   DISCLAIMER; RELEASE; WAIVER  .  AS AN ESSENTIAL INDUCEMENT TO SELLERS TO ENTER INTO THIS AGREEMENT, AND AS PART OF THE DETERMINATION OF THE PURCHASE PRICE, BUYER ACKNOWLEDGES AND AGREES, THAT, EXCEPT AS OTHERWISE EXPRESSLY PROVIDED IN THIS AGREEMENT AND THE DOCUMENTS EXECUTED BY SELLERS IN CONNECTION HEREWITH: 
  8.1   DISCLAIMER  . 
  8.1.1   AS-IS; WHERE-IS  .  THE SALE OF THE PROPERTIES HEREUNDER IS AND WILL BE MADE ON AN  AS IS, WHERE IS  BASIS.  SELLERS HAVE NOT MADE, DO NOT MAKE, AND SPECIFICALLY NEGATE AND DISCLAIM ANY  
  
   46 

REPRESENTATIONS, WARRANTIES, OR GUARANTIES OF ANY KIND OR CHARACTER WHATSOEVER, WHETHER EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, ORAL OR WRITTEN, PAST, PRESENT, OR FUTURE OF, AS TO, CONCERNING, OR WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPERTIES OR ANY OTHER MATTER WHATSOEVER. 
  8.1.2   SOPHISTICATION OF BUYER  .  BUYER IS A SOPHISTICATED BUYER WHO IS FAMILIAR WITH THE OWNERSHIP AND OPERATION OF REAL ESTATE PROJECTS SIMILAR TO THE PROPERTIES.  BUYER ALSO ACKNOWLEDGES THAT IT IS ACQUIRING THE PROPERTIES SOLELY ON THE BASIS OF AND IN RELIANCE UPON SUCH EXAMINATIONS AND THE TITLE INSURANCE PROTECTION AFFORDED BY BUYER S TITLE INSURANCE POLICY AND NOT ON ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED OR TO BE PROVIDED BY SELLERS. 
  8.1.3        DUE DILIGENCE MATERIALS  .  ANY INFORMATION PROVIDED OR TO BE PROVIDED WITH RESPECT TO THE PROPERTIES IS SOLELY FOR BUYER S CONVENIENCE AND WAS OR WILL BE OBTAINED FROM A VARIETY OF SOURCES.  SELLERS HAVE NOT MADE ANY INDEPENDENT INVESTIGATION OR VERIFICATION OF SUCH INFORMATION AND MAKES NO (AND EXPRESSLY DISCLAIMS ALL) REPRESENTATIONS AS TO THE ACCURACY OR COMPLETENESS OF SUCH INFORMATION.  SELLERS SHALL NOT BE LIABLE FOR ANY MISTAKES, OMISSIONS, OR MISREPRESENTATIONS, OR FOR ANY FAILURE OF BUYER TO INVESTIGATE THE PROPERTIES, NOR SHALL SELLERS BE BOUND IN ANY MANNER BY ANY VERBAL OR WRITTEN STATEMENTS, REPRESENTATIONS, APPRAISALS, ENVIRONMENTAL ASSESSMENT REPORTS, OR OTHER INFORMATION PERTAINING TO THE PROPERTIES OR THE OPERATION THEREOF, FURNISHED BY SELLERS OR BY ANY MANAGER, MEMBER, OR PARTNER OF SELLERS, OR BY ANY REAL ESTATE BROKERS, MEMBERS, PARTNERS, AGENTS, REPRESENTATIVES, TRUSTEES, AFFILIATES, DIRECTORS, OFFICERS, SHAREHOLDERS, EMPLOYEES, SERVANTS, OR AGENTS OF ANY OF THE FOREGOING, OR OTHER PERSONS OR ENTITIES ACTING ON BEHALF OF SELLERS OR AT EITHER SELLER S REQUEST OR OTHERWISE AFFILIATED WITH EITHER SELLER (COLLECTIVELY,  SELLER-RELATED PARTIES ). 
  
   47 

8.2   RELEASE; WAIVER  . 
  8.2.1        RELEASES  .    EFFECTIVE AS OF THE CLOSING, BUYER HEREBY RELEASES SELLERS AND ALL SELLER-RELATED PARTIES FROM ALL CLAIMS THAT BUYER OR ANY PARTY CLAIMING BY, THROUGH, OR UNDER BUYER (A  BUYER-RELATED PARTY ) HAS OR MAY HAVE AS OF CLOSING ARISING FROM OR RELATED TO ANY MATTER OR THING RELATED TO OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE PROPERTIES, INCLUDING THE PROPERTY INFORMATION, THE LEASES AND THE TENANTS THEREUNDER, ANY CONSTRUCTION DEFECTS, ERRORS, OR OMISSIONS IN THE DESIGN OR CONSTRUCTION, AND ANY ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS, AND BUYER SHALL NOT LOOK TO ANY SELLER-RELATED PARTIES IN CONNECTION WITH THE FOREGOING FOR ANY REDRESS OR RELIEF.  THIS RELEASE SHALL BE GIVEN FULL FORCE AND EFFECT ACCORDING TO EACH OF ITS EXPRESS TERMS AND PROVISIONS, INCLUDING THOSE RELATING TO UNKNOWN AND UNSUSPECTED CLAIMS, DAMAGES, AND CAUSES OF ACTION.  WITHOUT LIMITING THE GENERALITY OF THE FOREGOING, BY PROCEEDING TO CLOSING, BUYER SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE RELEASED SELLERS AND ALL SELLER-RELATED PARTIES FROM ALL RESPONSIBILITY AND LIABILITY TO BUYER REGARDING THE CONDITION (INCLUDING ITS PHYSICAL CONDITION AND ITS COMPLIANCE WITH LAWS, AND THE PRESENCE IN THE SOIL, AIR, STRUCTURES AND SURFACE AND SUBSURFACE WATERS, OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS (OR SUBSTANCES THAT HAVE BEEN, OR MAY IN THE FUTURE BE DETERMINED TO BE, HAZARDOUS MATERIALS OR SUBJECT TO REGULATION BY LAWS AND/OR THAT MAY NEED TO BE SPECIALLY TREATED, HANDLED AND/OR REMOVED FROM THE PROPERTY UNDER CURRENT OR FUTURE LAWS)), VALUATION, SALABILITY OR UTILITY OF THE PROPERTIES, OR ITS SUITABILITY FOR ANY PURPOSE WHATSOEVER. 
  
   48 

8.2.2        WAIVER  .    BY PROCEEDING TO CLOSING, BUYER SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE ACKNOWLEDGED THAT IT HAS INSPECTED THE PROPERTIES, OBSERVED THEIR PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND EXISTING CONDITIONS AND HAS HAD THE OPPORTUNITY TO CONDUCT SUCH INVESTIGATIONS AND STUDIES ON AND OF THE PROPERTIES AND ADJACENT AREAS AS IT DEEMED NECESSARY, AND BUYER SHALL BE DEEMED TO HAVE WAIVED ANY AND ALL OBJECTIONS TO OR COMPLAINTS (INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO ACTIONS BASED ON FEDERAL OR STATE STATUTORY OR COMMON LAW AND ANY PRIVATE RIGHT OF ACTION UNDER ANY LAWS ((INCLUDING THOSE PERTAINING TO ENVIRONMENTAL PROTECTION) TO WHICH THE PROPERTIES ARE OR MAY BE SUBJECT) REGARDING PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND EXISTING CONDITIONS, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION STRUCTURAL AND GEOLOGIC CONDITIONS, SUBSURFACE SOIL AND WATER CONDITIONS AND SOLID AND HAZARDOUS MATERIALS ON, UNDER, ADJACENT TO OR OTHERWISE AFFECTING THE PROPERTIES.  BUYER FURTHER HEREBY ASSUMES THE RISK OR CHANGES IN APPLICABLE LAWS RELATING TO PAST, PRESENT AND FUTURE ENVIRONMENTAL CONDITIONS ON THE PROPERTIES, AND THE RISK THAT ADVERSE PHYSICAL CHARACTERISTICS AND CONDITIONS, INCLUDING WITHOUT LIMITATION THE PRESENCE OF HAZARDOUS MATERIALS, MAY NOT BE REVEALED BY ITS INVESTIGATION. 
  _/s/REL_________    INITIALS OF BUYER 
  
   49 

9.   Disposition of Deposit  . 
  9.1   Default by Sellers  . 
  9.1.1 If the Closing shall not occur by reason of the failure of satisfaction of the conditions benefiting Buyer under Section 4 or the termination of this Agreement in accordance with Section 4 or Section 6 and such failure is not waived by Buyer, then the Deposit (less the Independent Consideration, which shall be paid to Sellers) shall be returned to Buyer, and neither party shall have any further obligation or liability to the other (other than those obligations that expressly survive a termination of this Agreement). 
  9.1.2 If the Closing shall not occur by reason of a Seller s material default hereunder that has not been cured within fifteen (15) days following receipt of written notice thereof (a    Seller Default   ), then, provided Buyer is not in default of any of its obligations under this Agreement and Buyer has demonstrated that it is ready, willing and able to perform its obligations under this Agreement (including having obtained funds at least equal to the Closing Payment), Buyer shall be entitled as its sole and exclusive remedy to either (1) specifically enforce this Agreement, but an action for specific performance must be commenced within sixty (60) days after the scheduled Closing Date (and thereafter must be diligently pursued) or be forever barred, or (2) terminate this Agreement and obtain a return of the Deposit (less the Independent Consideration, which shall be paid to Sellers), but no other action, for damages or otherwise, shall be permitted. 
  
   50 

9.2   Default by Buyer  .  NOTWITHSTANDING ANYTHING TO THE CONTRARY CONTAINED IN THIS AGREEMENT, IF BUYER HAS NOT TERMINATED THIS AGREEMENT IN ACCORDANCE WITH THE TERMS SET FORTH IN THIS AGREEMENT AND IF THE SALE OF THE PROPERTIES TO BUYER IS NOT CONSUMMATED OTHER THAN SOLELY AND DIRECTLY DUE TO A SELLER DEFAULT, THEN SELLERS, AS SELLERS  SOLE AND EXCLUSIVE REMEDY, BUT SUBJECT TO THE PROVISIONS OF THIS AGREEMENT THAT EXPRESSLY SURVIVE A TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT, MAY TERMINATE THIS AGREEMENT AND THE DEPOSIT SHALL BE DELIVERED TO AND RETAINED BY SELLERS AS FULL COMPENSATION AND LIQUIDATED DAMAGES UNDER THIS AGREEMENT FOR SUCH FAILURE TO CLOSE.  IN CONNECTION WITH THE FOREGOING, THE PARTIES RECOGNIZE THAT SELLERS WILL INCUR EXPENSES IN CONNECTION WITH THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT AND THAT THE PROPERTIES MAY BE REMOVED FROM THE MARKET; FURTHER, THAT IT IS EXTREMELY DIFFICULT AND IMPRACTICABLE TO ASCERTAIN THE EXTENT OF DETRIMENT TO SELLERS CAUSED BY THE BREACH BY BUYER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT AND THE FAILURE OF THE CONSUMMATION OF THE TRANSACTION CONTEMPLATED BY THIS AGREEMENT OR THE AMOUNT OF COMPENSATION SELLERS SHOULD RECEIVE AS A RESULT OF BUYER S DEFAULT, AND THAT THE DEPOSIT REPRESENTS THE PARTIES  BEST CURRENT ESTIMATE OF SUCH DETRIMENT.  THIS SECTION 9.2 SHALL SURVIVE ANY TERMINATION OF THIS AGREEMENT.  NOTHING CONTAINED IN THIS SECTION 9.2 SHALL LIMIT OR IMPAIR ANY OF SELLERS  RIGHTS AND REMEDIES AGAINST BUYER FOR ANY OTHER PRE-CLOSING DEFAULT BY BUYER UNDER THIS AGREEMENT (INCLUDING BUYER S DUE DILIGENCE INDEMNITY UNDER SECTION 4.6 OR BREACH OF CONFIDENTIALITY UNDER SECTION 10.17 BELOW). 
                   ______/s/REL_____________ 
  BUYER S INITIALS 
    _______/s/KC____________ 
  SELLER BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC S INITIALS 
    _________/s/KC__________ 
  SELLER BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW IV LLC S INITIALS 

51 

9.3   Closing  .  If the Closing shall occur, the Deposit shall be applied as a partial payment of the Purchase Price. 
  10.   Miscellaneous  . 
  10.1   Brokers  . 
  10.1.1 Each Seller represents and warrants to Buyer, and Buyer represents and warrants to Sellers, that no broker or finder has been engaged by it, respectively, in connection with the sale contemplated by this Agreement.  In the event of a claim for broker s or finder s fee or commissions in connection with the sale contemplated by this Agreement, then the applicable Seller shall indemnify, defend, and hold harmless Buyer from the same if it shall be based upon any statement or agreement alleged to have been made by such Seller, and Buyer shall indemnify, defend and hold harmless Sellers from the same if it shall be based upon any statement or agreement alleged to have been made by Buyer. 
  10.1.2 The provisions of this Section 10.1 are not intended to apply to leasing commissions incurred in accordance with this Agreement.   
  10.2   Limitation of Liability  . 
  10.2.1 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, the direct and indirect shareholders, partners, members, trustees, officers, directors, employees, agents, and security holders of the parties are not assuming any, and shall have no, personal liability for any obligations of the parties hereto under this Agreement, except as provided in the Joinder attached hereto.  In no event shall any party be liable under this Agreement for any consequential, exemplary, special, or punitive damages. 
  10.2.2 Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein (but subject to the provisions of Section 10.2.1), neither Seller shall have any liability to Buyer (and Buyer shall make no claim against either Seller) for a breach of any representation or warranty or any other covenant, agreement, or obligation of either Seller that survives Closing, or for indemnification, under this Agreement or any Closing Document executed by either Seller in connection with this Agreement, unless the valid claims for all such breaches and indemnifications collectively aggregate to more than $1,000,000 (the    Basket Limitation   ), in which case Buyer shall be entitled to recover the amounts that exceed the Basket Limitation.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the liability of Sellers under this Agreement and such documents shall not exceed, in the aggregate, an amount equal to two percent (2%) of  
  
   52 

the Purchase Price (the    Cap Limitation   ).    Notwithstanding the foregoing, in the event an Escrow Period Violation is not cured by Sellers on or prior to the Closing pursuant to Section 7.5 hereof, Sellers shall indemnify Buyer for all Losses actually incurred by Buyer relating solely to such Escrow Period Violations in excess of $100,000 (   Violation Basket   ), in which case Buyer shall be entitled to recover the amounts that exceed the Violation Basket.  Further, and notwithstanding the previous sentence, the liability of Sellers under this Agreement for any Escrow Period Violations shall in no event exceed $1,000,000 (the    Violation Cap   ). 
  (a) Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein (but subject to the provisions of Section 10.2.1), Buyer shall have no liability to Sellers (and Sellers shall make no claim against Buyer) for a breach of any representation or warranty or any other covenant, agreement, or obligation of Buyer that survives Closing, or for indemnification, under this Agreement or any Closing Document executed by Buyer in connection with this Agreement, unless the valid claims for all such breaches and indemnifications collectively aggregate to more than the Basket Limitation (or the Violation Basket with respect to Escrow Period Violations only), in which case Sellers shall be entitled to recover the amounts that exceed the Basket Limitation (or Violation Basket, as applicable).  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, the liability of Buyer under this Agreement and such documents shall not exceed the Cap Limitation (or the Violation Cap with respect to Escrow Period Violations only).   
  (b)        The terms and provisions of this   Section 10.2.4   shall survive Closing and/or termination of this Agreement. 
  10.2.3        The limitations of liability contained in this Section 10.2 are in addition to, and not in limitation of, any limitation on liability provided elsewhere in this Agreement or by Law or by any other contract, agreement, or instrument. 
  10.3   Schedules and Exhibits; Entire Agreement; Modification  .  All schedules and exhibits attached and referred to in this Agreement are hereby incorporated herein as if fully set forth in (and shall be deemed to be a part of) this Agreement.  This Agreement contains the entire agreement between the parties respecting the matters herein set forth and supersedes all prior agreements between the parties hereto respecting such matters.  This Agreement may not be modified or amended except by written agreement signed by both parties. 
  10.4   Time of the Essence  .  Time is of the essence of this Agreement.  However, whenever action must be taken (including the giving of notice or the delivery of documents) under this Agreement during a certain period of time (or by a particular date) that ends (or occurs) on a non-business day, then such period (or date) shall be  
  
   53 

extended until the immediately following business day.  As used herein,    business day    shall mean any day other than a Saturday, Sunday, or federal or New York state holiday.  Unless expressly indicated otherwise, (a) all references to time in this Agreement shall be deemed to refer to Eastern time, and (b) all time periods provided for under this Agreement shall expire at 5:00 p.m. Eastern time. 
  10.5   Interpretation  .  Section headings shall not be used in construing this Agreement.  Each party acknowledges that such party and its counsel, after negotiation and consultation, have reviewed and revised this Agreement.  As such, the terms of this Agreement shall be fairly construed, and the usual rule of construction, to the effect that any ambiguities herein should be resolved against the drafting party, shall not be employed in the interpretation of this Agreement or any amendments, modifications, or exhibits hereto or thereto.  The words  herein ,  hereof ,  hereunder ,  hereby ,  this Agreement , and other similar references shall be construed to mean and include this Agreement and all amendments and supplements hereto unless the context shall clearly indicate or require otherwise.  Whenever the words  including ,  include , or  includes  are used in this Agreement, they shall be interpreted in a non-exclusive manner.  Except as otherwise indicated, all Schedule, Exhibit, and Section references in this Agreement shall be deemed to refer to the Schedules, Exhibits, and Sections in this Agreement.  Except as otherwise expressly provided herein, any approval or consent provided to be given by a party hereunder must be in writing to be effective and may be given or withheld in the sole and absolute discretion of such party. 
  10.6   Governing Law  .  This Agreement shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the Laws of the State of New York, without giving effect to any principles regarding conflict of laws. 
  10.7   Successors and Assigns  .  Buyer may not assign or transfer any of its rights or obligations under this Agreement either directly or indirectly (whether by outright transfer, transfer of ownership interests, or otherwise) without the prior written consent of Sellers in their sole and absolute discretion; provided, however, Buyer may assign all of its interest in this Agreement one time on or before the Closing Date to (i) a wholly-owned subsidiary of Buyer or (ii) a lending institution selected by Buyer (a    Buyer Assignee   ) so long as (A) Buyer gives Sellers notice thereof at least two (2) business days prior to Closing (including the name, vesting, and signature block of the transferee), (B) the assignment to a Buyer Assignee shall occur immediately prior to the Closing, (C) in connection with the Closing, Buyer and Buyer Assignee execute and deliver to Sellers an assignment of the right to receive the Deed hereunder upon receipt by Sellers of the Purchase Price (as adjusted herein) in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to Sellers and Buyer Assignee and (D) on or prior to the Closing, Buyer and Buyer Assignee shall enter into the Participation Agreement.  Notwithstanding the limited assignment by Buyer to a Buyer Assignee permitted hereunder, in no event shall Buyer be relieved of its obligations and liabilities hereunder as a result of any such assignment and Buyer shall perform all  
  
   54 

obligations hereunder (including without limitation, the assumption of all Contracts required to be assumed hereunder) and Buyer Assignee shall have no liability whatsoever to Seller or any other person under this Agreement.   No consent given by Sellers to any transfer or assignment of Buyer s rights or obligations hereunder shall be construed as a consent to any other transfer or assignment of Buyer s rights or obligations hereunder.  No transfer or assignment in violation of the provisions hereof shall be valid or enforceable.  Subject to the foregoing, this Agreement and the terms and provisions hereof shall inure to the benefit of and be binding upon the successors and assigns of the parties. The terms of this Section 10.7 shall survive the Closing of this Agreement. 
  10.8   Notices  .  All notices, demands, and communications permitted or required to be given hereunder shall be in writing, and shall be delivered (a) personally; (b) by United States registered or certified mail, postage prepaid; (c) by FedEx or other reputable courier service regularly providing evidence of delivery (with charges paid by the party sending the notice); or (d) by a PDF or similar attachment to an e mail, provided that such e mail attachment shall be followed within one (1) business day by delivery of such notice pursuant to clause (a), (b), or (c) above.  (Notwithstanding clause (d), e mail notice is sufficient in and of itself, and need not be followed by delivery of notice pursuant to clause (a), (b), or (c) above, as long as both (i) the notice is not a notice of default or a notice of termination of the Agreement, and (ii) receipt of such e mail is affirmatively acknowledged by all parties to whom such e mail is required to be addressed (including those to be copied).)  Any such notice to a party shall be addressed at the address set forth below (subject to the right of a party to designate a different address for itself by notice similarly given): 

55 

Service of any such notice or other communications so made shall be deemed effective on the day of actual delivery (whether accepted or refused), provided that  
  
   56 

if any notice or other communication to be delivered by email attachment as provided above cannot be transmitted because of a problem affecting the receiving party s computer, the deadline for receiving such notice or other communication shall be extended through the next business day, as shown by the addressee s return receipt if by certified mail, and as confirmed by the courier service if by courier; provided, however, that if such actual delivery occurs after 5:00 p.m. local time where received or on a non-business day, then such notice or communication so made shall be deemed effective on the first business day after the day of actual delivery.  Except as expressly provided above with respect to certain email attachments and in Section 10.21 below, no communications via electronic mail shall be effective to give any notice, request, direction, demand, consent, waiver, approval, or other communications hereunder.  The attorneys for any party hereto shall be entitled to provide any notice that a party desires to provide or is required to provide hereunder. 
  10.9   Third Parties  .  Except as provided in Section 8.2, nothing in this Agreement, whether expressed or implied, is intended to confer any rights or remedies under or by reason of this Agreement on any person other than the parties hereto and their respective successors and assigns, and nothing in this Agreement is intended to relieve or discharge the obligation or liability of any third persons to any party to this Agreement, and no provision shall give any third parties any right of subrogation or action over or against any party to this Agreement. 
  10.10   Legal Costs  . Each party hereto agrees that it shall pay directly any and all legal costs which it has incurred or shall incur on its own behalf in the preparation of this Agreement, all Deeds, and other agreements pertaining to this transaction and that such legal costs shall not be part of the closing costs.  In addition, if either Buyer or either Seller brings any suit or other proceeding, including an arbitration proceeding, with respect to the subject matter or the enforcement of this Agreement, the prevailing party (as determined by the court, agency, arbitrator, or other authority before which such suit or proceeding is commenced), in addition to such other relief as may be awarded, shall be entitled to recover reasonable attorneys  fees, expenses and costs of investigation actually incurred.  The foregoing includes attorneys  fees, expenses and costs of investigation (including those incurred in appellate proceedings), costs incurred in establishing the right to indemnification, or in any action or participation in, or in connection with, any case or proceeding under Chapter 7, 11, or 13 of the Bankruptcy Code (11 United States Code Sections 101 et seq.), or any successor statutes.  The provisions of this Section 10.10 shall survive the Closing or any termination of this Agreement. 
  10.11   Bulk Sales Laws  .  Buyer and Seller hereby agree to comply with the provisions of any bulk sales, bulk transfer or similar laws of any jurisdiction that may be applicable with respect to the sale of all or any portion of the Properties to Buyer, and both parties hereby agree to reasonably cooperate with the other in such compliance.  
  
   57 

10.12   Further Assurances  .  Each party shall, whenever and as often as it shall be requested so to do by the other, cause to be executed, acknowledged, or delivered any and all such further instruments and documents as may be necessary or proper, in the reasonable opinion of the requesting party, in order to carry out the intent and purpose of this Agreement (provided the same do not increase in any respect the costs to, or liabilities or obligations of, such party in a manner not otherwise provided for herein). 
  10.13   Severability  .  If any term or provision of this Agreement or the application thereof to any person or circumstance shall, to any extent, be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of this Agreement, or the application of such term or provision to persons or circumstances other than those as to which it is held invalid or unenforceable, shall not be affected thereby, and each such term and provision of this Agreement shall be valid and be enforced to the fullest extent permitted by Law. 
  10.14   Press Releases  .  Except as otherwise expressly permitted under Section 10.17 below, no press release or other public disclosure regarding the terms of this Agreement or the transaction contemplated hereby shall be made without the prior written consent of Buyer and Sellers.  Except as otherwise expressly permitted under Section 10.17 below, without limitation on the foregoing, Buyer and Sellers shall use diligent efforts not to make any public disclosure of the Purchase Price.  However, either party shall have the right to make public disclosures required by (1) Law (but only if such party gives the other party reasonable notice and an opportunity to obtain a restraining order or take other similar protective actions) or (2) the rules and regulations of a securities exchange.  This Section 10.14 shall survive the Closing. 
  10.15   Anti-Terrorism Law  .  Each party is in material compliance with the terms of the USA Patriot Act of 2001, as amended, any regulations promulgated under the foregoing law, Executive Order No. 13224 on Terrorist Financing, any sanctions program administrated by the U.S. Department of Treasury s Office of Foreign Asset Control or Financial Crimes Enforcement Network (collectively, the    Anti Money Laundering and Anti-Terrorism Laws   ), and any other Laws, regulations or executive orders designed to combat terrorism or money laundering, if applicable, to this Agreement.  Each party represents and warrants to the other party that it is not an entity named on the List of Specially Designated Nationals and Blocked Persons maintained by the U.S. Department of Treasury, as last updated prior to the date of this Agreement.  The monies used to fund Buyer s investment in the Property are not (i) derived from, invested for the benefit of or related in any way to the governments of, or persons within, any country under a United States embargo enforced by the Office of Foreign Assets Control of the United States Department of the Treasury (currently, Cuba, Iran, North Korea, Sudan, Syria, or the Crimea region of Ukraine), or (ii) derived from  any illegal or illicit activity. 
  10.16        Tax Appeal Proceedings  . 
  10.16.1   Prosecution and Settlement of Proceedings  .  
  
   58 

(a) If any tax reduction proceedings in respect of any Constituent Property, relating to any tax years ending prior to the year in which the Closing occurs, are pending at the time of the Closing, the applicable Seller reserves and shall have the right to continue to prosecute and/or settle the same at no cost or expense to Buyer and without Buyer's consent; provided, that, neither Seller shall be permitted to settle or compromise any such proceedings if such settlement or compromise would have an adverse impact on the taxes for the fiscal year in which the Closing occurs or any subsequent tax period.   
  (b) If any tax reduction proceedings in respect of a Constituent Property, relating to the tax year in which the Closing occurs, are pending at the time of Closing, then such Seller reserves and shall have the right to continue to prosecute and settle the same; provided, however, that such Seller shall not settle any such proceeding without Buyer s prior written consent, which consent shall not be unreasonably withheld or delayed.  Buyer shall reasonably cooperate with Sellers in connection with the prosecution of any such tax reduction proceedings. 
  10.16.2   Application of Refunds or Savings  .  Any refunds or savings in the payment of taxes resulting from such tax reduction proceedings that are applicable to taxes allocable to the period prior to the date of the Closing shall belong to and be the property of the applicable Seller, and any refunds or savings in the payment of taxes that are applicable to taxes allocable to the period from and after the date of the Closing shall belong to and be the property of Buyer; provided, however, that if any such refund creates an obligation to reimburse any tenants under any Lease for any rents or additional rents paid or to be paid, that portion of such refund equal to the amount of such required reimbursement (after deduction of allocable expenses as may be provided in such Lease to such tenant) shall, at such Seller s election, either (a) be paid to Buyer and Buyer shall disburse the same to such tenants or (b) be paid by such Seller directly to the tenants entitled thereto.  All reasonable attorneys  fees and other expenses incurred in obtaining such refunds or savings shall be apportioned between the applicable Seller and Buyer in proportion to the gross amount of such refunds or savings payable to such Seller and Buyer, respectively (without regard to any amounts reimbursable to tenants); provided, however, that neither the applicable Seller nor Buyer shall have any liability for any such fees or expenses in excess of the refund or savings paid to such party unless such party initiated such proceeding. 
  10.16.3   Survival  .  The provisions of this Section 10.15 shall survive the Closing. 
  
   59 

10.17   Acceptance of Deeds  .  Consummation of the Closing shall be deemed full compliance by Sellers of all of Sellers  obligations under this Agreement except for those obligations of Sellers that are specifically stated to survive the Closing hereunder. 
  10.18   Adjoining Property  .   
  (a) Buyer and Sellers acknowledge and agree that Buyer (or one of its affiliates) is the owner of an adjoining property to the Constituent Properties (the    Adjoining Property   ) and is currently pursuing certain development opportunities at the Adjoining Property, which may require the cooperation of the owner of the Constituent Properties with respect to certain traffic studies, entitlements, and other development matters.  During the Escrow Period, Buyer and Sellers shall use commercially reasonable efforts to consult with such other party with respect to the potential development of the Adjoining Property, provided that nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit either party in its sole and absolute discretion from contacting any Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over the Adjoining Property or making a public filing or responding to a public filing with respect to the Adjoining Property.   Notwithstanding the foregoing, if Buyer elects during the Escrow Period to suspend its development activities with respect to the Adjoining Property and notifies Sellers in writing of the same, Sellers shall not make any public filings or responses to a public filing with respect to the Adjoining Property that Buyer has fully revoked (unless such filing or response is necessary due to previous filings or responses made by Buyer or an affiliate thereof). 
  (b) Buyer and Sellers acknowledge and agree that (i) Buyer (or one of its affiliates) (such Person(s), the "  Loop Road Property Owner  ") is the owner of an adjoining property to the Constituent Properties (the    Loop Road Property   ), (ii) Sellers hold an easement granting Sellers certain use of and/or access to a certain area of the Loop Road Property (such area, the "  Easement Area  ") and (iii) Sellers are currently pursuing certain development opportunities on and/or around the Easement Area, which may require the cooperation of the Loop Road Property Owner with respect to certain traffic studies, entitlements, and other development matters.  During the Escrow Period, Sellers shall use commercially reasonable efforts to consult with Buyer with respect to the potential development of the Easement Area, provided that nothing in this Agreement shall prohibit either party in its sole and absolute discretion from contacting any Governmental Entity having jurisdiction over the Loop Road Property or making a public filing or responding to a public filing with respect to the Loop Road Property.   
  10.19   Relationship of the Parties  .  Nothing in this Agreement shall be construed so as to make Buyer a partner of the Sellers and nothing in this Agreement shall be  
  
   60 

construed so as to make Buyer an owner of the Properties for any purpose until the Closing Date. 
  10.20   Confidentiality  .  The terms of the transaction contemplated in this Agreement, including, without limitation, the Purchase Price, all other financial terms, and all Due Diligence Materials, shall remain confidential and shall not be disclosed by any party hereto without the written consent of the other except (a) to such party s directors, officers, partners, members, employees, legal counsel, accountants, lenders, engineers, architects, brokers, financial advisors, and similar professionals and consultants, to the extent such party deems it necessary or appropriate in connection with the transaction contemplated hereunder (and such party shall inform each of the foregoing parties of such party s obligations under this Section and shall secure the agreement of such parties to be bound by the terms hereof), or (b) as otherwise required by Law or regulation (including the rules and regulations of a securities exchange).  Unless and until the transaction contemplated by this Agreement shall close, Buyer shall also keep confidential all documents, reports, and information concerning the Properties obtained from Sellers or through the due diligence investigation of the Properties by Buyer or its agents, except to the extent permitted by clauses (a) or (b) above.  The provisions of this Section 10.20 shall survive any termination of this Agreement or the Closing (as applicable). 
  10.21   Counterparts; Delivery  . This Agreement may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same document.  The delivery of an executed counterpart of this Agreement by facsimile or as a PDF or similar attachment to an e-mail shall constitute effective delivery of such counterpart for all purposes with the same force and effect as the delivery of an original, executed counterpart.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon written request by either party the other party promptly shall deliver an original, executed counterpart of this Agreement to the requesting party. 
  10.22   Effectiveness  . In no event shall any draft of this Agreement create any obligation or liability, it being understood that this Agreement shall be effective and binding only when a counterpart hereof has been executed and delivered by each party hereto. 
  10.23   Jurisdiction  . Buyer and Sellers each irrevocably submits to the jurisdiction of (a) the Supreme Court of the State of New York and (b) the United States District Court for the Southern District of New York for the purposes of any suit, action, or other proceeding arising out of this Agreement or any transaction contemplated hereby.  Buyer and Sellers each further agree that service of any process, summons, notice, or document by U.S. certified mail to such party s respective address set forth above shall be effective service of process for any action, suit, or proceeding in New York with respect to any matters to which it has submitted to jurisdiction as set forth above in the immediately preceding sentence.    BUYER AND SELLERS EACH IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES TRIAL BY JURY  
  
   61 

AND IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES ANY OBJECTION TO THE LAYING OF VENUE OF ANY ACTION, SUIT, OR PROCEEDING ARISING OUT OF THIS AGREEMENT OR THE TRANSACTIONS CONTEMPLATED HEREBY IN (X) THE SUPREME COURT OF THE STATE OF NEW YORK AND (Y) THE UNITED STATES DISTRICT COURT FOR THE SOUTHERN DISTRICT OF NEW YORK, AND HEREBY FURTHER IRREVOCABLY AND UNCONDITIONALLY WAIVES AND AGREES NOT TO PLEAD OR CLAIM IN ANY SUCH COURT THAT ANY SUCH ACTION, SUIT, OR PROCEEDING BROUGHT IN ANY SUCH COURT HAS BEEN BROUGHT IN AN INCONVENIENT FORUM. 
  [Signatures appear on following page.] 

62 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Sellers and Buyer have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written. 
               SELLERS: 
        
      BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC, 
      a Delaware limited liability company 
        
      By:   /s/Kenneth A. Caplan 
      Name: Kenneth A. Caplan 
      Title: Senior Managing Director and Vice President 
        
      BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW IV LLC, 
      a Delaware limited liability company 
        
      By:   /s/Kenneth A. Caplan 
      Name: Kenneth A. Caplan 
      Title: Senior Managing Director and Vice President 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Sellers and Buyer have executed this Agreement as of the date first above written. 
               BUYER: 
        
      REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC., 
      a New York corporation 
        
      By:   /s/Robert E. Landry 
      Name: Robert E. Landry 
      Title: SVP - CFO   Finance 

63 

JOINDER BY ESCROW AGENT 
  Old Republic Title Company, referred to in this Agreement as the  Escrow Agent,  hereby acknowledges that it received this Agreement executed by Sellers and Buyer as of the   30th   day of December, 2016, and accepts the obligations of the Escrow Agent as set forth herein. 
  OLD REPUBLIC TITLE COMPANY 
               By:   /s/Gregory J. Chaparro 
      Name: Gregory J. Chaparro 
      Title: SVP 

64 

ACKNOWLEDGEMENT BY ESCROW AGENT OF RECEIPT OF DEPOSIT 
  Old Republic Title Company, referred to in this Agreement as the  Escrow Agent,  hereby acknowledges that it received the Deposit on the   30th   day of December, 2016.  The Escrow Agent hereby agrees to hold and distribute the Deposit in accordance with the terms and provisions of the Agreement. 
  OLD REPUBLIC TITLE COMPANY 
               By:   /s/Gregory J. Chaparro 
      Name: Gregory J. Chaparro 
      Title: SVP 

65 

JOINDER 
  1. In consideration of Buyer s execution of that certain Purchase Agreement dated as of December 30, 2016 by and between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC, BMR-Landmark at Eastview IV LLC and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (as the same may be amended, modified or supplemented from time to time, the    Agreement   ) to which this    Joinder    is attached (and of which it forms a part), the undersigned (   Seller Parent   ), hereby agrees, to fulfill any payment obligations of Sellers under Section 5.2.1(i), Section 5.3, Section 5.4.3(b), Section 5.4.3(d), Section 7.6, Section 10.1.1, Section 10.2.2, Section 10.10 and Section 10.16.2 of the Agreement (collectively, the    Obligations   ) in accordance with the terms of the Agreement and to the extent such Obligations are not timely fulfilled by Sellers, but without any obligation of Buyer to proceed first against Sellers for such Obligations, in each case subject to the limitations set forth in the Agreement.  Capitalized terms used in this Joinder and not otherwise defined herein shall have the same meanings as set forth in the Agreement. 
  2. Seller Parent acknowledges that Seller Parent is an affiliate of Seller and that Seller Parent will derive substantial benefits from the execution of the Agreement and the transactions contemplated thereby, and that Seller Parent s execution of this Joinder is a material inducement and condition to Buyer s execution of the Agreement.  
  3. Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Joinder, the obligations and liabilities of Seller Parent under this Joinder are subject to all limitations applicable to the Seller s obligations and liabilities under the Agreement, including, without limitation, the limitations set forth in Section 7.3 and Section 10.2 of the Agreement, and all such limitations are incorporated herein by this reference as if set forth in full herein.  Without limitation on the foregoing:  (a) in no event shall Seller Parent's liability under this Joinder exceed the Cap Limitation (subject to reduction for any claims or amounts actually paid by Sellers and credited against the Cap Limitation pursuant to the terms of the Agreement) in the aggregate for all claims made by Buyer hereunder; and (b) all obligations and liabilities of Seller Parent under this Joinder (including any cause of action by reason of a breach thereof) shall survive the Closing only for so long as such obligations or liabilities shall survive pursuant to the terms of the Agreement.   
  4. Seller Parent s guaranty and liability under this Joinder are absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected, released, terminated, discharged or impaired, in whole or in part, by any or all of the following:  (i) any lack of genuineness, regularity, validity, legality or enforceability, or the voidability of, the Agreement; (ii) the failure of Buyer to exercise or to exhaust any right or remedy or take any action against any Person or any collateral or other security available to it; (iii) any amendment or modification of the terms of the Agreement; (iv) any failure or delay of Buyer to exercise, or any lack of diligence in exercising, any right or remedy with respect to the Agreement; (v) any dealings or transactions between Buyer and Sellers or any of its affiliates relating to the Agreement, whether or not Seller Parent shall be a party to or cognizant of the same; (vi) any exchange, surrender or release, in whole or in part, of any security which may be held by Buyer at any time in respect of the Agreement; (vii) any guaranty now or hereafter executed by Seller Parent or its affiliates or the release of Seller Parent or its affiliates thereunder or the failure of any other party to assume liability for the payment in connection with the Agreement, whether by operation  
  
   66 

of law or otherwise; (viii) Buyer's consent to any assignment or successive assignments of the Agreement; (ix) the failure to give Seller Parent notice of any breach; and/or (x) any other circumstance which might constitute a legal or equitable discharge or defense available to Seller Parent, whether similar or dissimilar to the foregoing, other than the defense of (a) payment and performance or (b) the claim against Sellers is not due and owing under the terms of the Agreement or that Seller has performed (it being understood and agreed that Buyer will only be required to litigate the existence of the same or similar defenses raised by both Seller and Seller Parent in one action or proceeding).  Seller Parent expressly waives the following:  (i) notice of acceptance of this Joinder; (ii) any requirement of promptness, diligence, presentment, protest, notice of dishonor, notice of demand and notice of acceptance; (iii) the right to trial by jury in any action or proceeding of any kind arising on, under, out of, or by reason of or relating, in any way, to its obligations under this Joinder, or the interpretation, breach or enforcement of such obligations; and (iv) all rights of subrogation and any other claims that it may now or hereafter acquire against Seller or any insider that arise from the existence, payment, performance or enforcement of Seller Parent s obligations under this Joinder until such time as Seller Parent s obligations under this Joinder are performed and paid in full.  Seller Parent s obligations under this Joinder are a present guaranty of payment and performance and not merely of collection.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained herein, Seller Parent s liability shall extend to all amounts and performance of all of its obligations under this Joinder notwithstanding the fact that the Agreement becomes unenforceable or not allowable due to the existence of a bankruptcy, reorganization or similar proceeding.   
  5.  The following Sections of the Agreement shall apply to this Joinder as though herein set forth in full,   mutatis mutandis  :  7.3, 10.2, 10.3, 10.5, 10.6, 10.8, 10.13, 10.14, 10.17, 10.20, 10.21, 10.22 and 10.23 (with any notice to Seller Parent to be sent to the addresses set forth for Sellers in Section 10.8 of the Agreement). 
  (no further text on this page) 
  
   67 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Joinder as of the date of the Agreement. 

BIOMED REALTY, L.P., 
  a Maryland Partnership 
    
  By:    BRE Edison L.P., a Delaware limited partnership,           its general partner 
       
  By:    BRE Edison LLC, a Delaware limited liability company,              its general partner 
                         By:   /s/Kenneth A. Caplan 
      Name: Kenneth A. Caplan 
      Title: Senior Managing Director and Vice President 

68 

LIST OF EXHIBITS AND SCHEDULES 

EXHIBITS 
    
       A  
    - 
    Legal Description 
       B  
    - 
    Reserved 
       C  
    - 
    Form of Deed 
       D  
    - 
    Form of Bill Of Sale, Assignment, and Assumption 
       E  
    - 
    Form of Notice to Tenants 
       F  
    - 
    Form of Seller Title Certificate 
       G  
    - 
    Form of Seller Closing Certificate 
       H  
    - 
    Form of Buyer Closing Certificate 
       I  
    - 
    Form of FIRPTA 
       J-1  
    - 
    Form of Tenant Estoppel 
       J-2  
    - 
    Form of Contractor Estoppel 

69 

SCHEDULE 1.22 
    
  LEASES 

70 

71 

72 

SCHEDULE 1.32 
    
  PERSONAL PROPERTY 

Firewall, located in the basement of 777  
                
    Router, located in the basement of 777  
                
    CISCO phone system, located in the basement of 777 and BMR management office 
                
    Meraki wireless access points, located in the BMR management office 
                
    Switches, located in the BMR management office 
                
    Computers, located in the BMR management office 
                
    Monitors, located in the BMR management office 
                
    Xerox copier, located in the BMR management office 
                
    Cell phones 
                
    Laptops  
                
    iPads 

73 

SCHEDULE 4.3.4 
    
  PERMITTED EXCEPTIONS 
    
           1. 
    Variations between Tax Map and record description. 
              2. 
    Until a guaranteed survey is received, the title policy will not insure the exact location, courses, distances and dimensions of the premises or the bed of any street, road or avenue passing through the said premises or any state of facts that a survey would show. 
              3. 
    No title is insured to any land now or formerly lying in the bed of SAW MILL RIVER, its arms, branches or tributaries by whatever name called. 
              4. 
    Rights of others to the natural and unobstructed flow of any rivers, brooks and streams crossing premises. 
              5. 
    Subject to riparian rights and easements of others and over SAW MILL RIVER, but policy does not insure any riparian rights or easements in favor of the owner of the premises as described in the title report. 
               7. 
    Terms Conditions of the unrecorded Easement Agreements for Air Space over Old Saw Mill River Road between the TOWN OF GREENBURGH and UNION CARBIDE CORP. dated August 21, 1968 with reference to the bridge thereon over Old Saw Mill River Road. 
               9. 
    Access Easement, 20 feet wide, Reserved in Liber 4045 cp 92 for ingress and egress in favor of the COUNTY OF WESTCHESTER from Old Saw Mill Road to the Potter's Filed, A/K/A County Home Cemetery and referred to in Liber 4087 cp 405. 
               11. 
    Easements, public and private over so much of the premises described in Schedule A, which lies in the present or former bed of SAW MILL RIVER ROAD and OLD SAW MILL RIVER ROAD, for all street purposes including but not limited to utilities, water and sewer lines, telegraph, telephone and power lines. 
           
   74 

75 

Eastview, LLC is landlord (affects 769, 771 and 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Lot 2 on Southerly side of road and Lot 1 on Northerly side of road). 
           35. 
    Note for Information Only: A deed dated 12/28/07 made by Eastview Holdings LLC to BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC was recorded 2/6/09 as Control No. 483310118 (See Exhibit FF). This deed purports to convey a parcel of land and improvements designated as  Lot PAR  on filed map 27754 (See Exhibit GG). Filed Map 27754 does not contain a lot designated as  Lot PAR , but does show an area labeled  Bldg Over  -  Tax Lot P - AR , which area is over a public right of way commonly known as Old Saw Mill River Road, Rt. 303, which area may be the subject of an unrecorded agreement dated August 21, 1968 between the Town of Greenburgh and Union Carbide Corp. 

76 

SCHEDULE 5.4.1(b) 
    
  SECURITY DEPOSITS 

77 

SCHEDULE 5.4.1(f) 
    
  SELLERS  CAPITAL PROJECTS 
    
  [See attached.] 

78 

Schedule 5.4.1(f) 
  Seller s Capital Projects 
  (Projected through 12/31/2016) 
  Pending Capital Projects - Projected through 12/31/2016 

79 

SCHEDULE 7.1.1(b) 
  LEASE DEFAULTS 

[****] 
                
    [****] 
                
    [****] 

80 

SCHEDULE 7.1.1(d) 
    
  BROKERAGE AGREEMENTS 
  A.____Assumed Brokerage Agreements 
           1. 
    Letter Agreement dated November 7, 2006 regarding Proposed Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Bayer for Office and Laboratory Space at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York 10591, executed by Equis (Broker) and BioMed Realty, L.P.   
              2. 
    Letter Agreement dated December 23, 2009 regarding Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Armgo Pharma, Inc. at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by FirstService Williams New Jersey, LLC (Broker) and Landmark Owner. 
              3. 
    Letter Agreement dated April 1, 2009 regarding Proposed Third Amendment to Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron, for Premises at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by Studley and Landmark Owner. 
              4. 
    Letter Agreement dated December 13, 2006 regarding Proposed Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron for Premises in Buildings to be Built Near 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by Studley and Landmark Owner. 
              5. 
    Letter Agreement dated November 17, 2009 regarding Proposed Fourth Amendment to Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron, for Premises at 755 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by Studley and Landmark Owner. 
              6. 
    Letter Agreement dated July 16, 2010 regarding Amendment between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron, for Premises at 765 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by Studley and Landmark Owner. 
              7. 
    Letter Agreement dated November 11, 2010 regarding Amendment to Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron, at 765 and 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by Studley and Landmark Owner. 
              8. 
    Letter Agreement dated October 19, 2012 regarding Lease Amendment between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron, at 765 and 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by Studley and Landmark Owner. 
              9. 
    Letter Agreement dated April 1, 2013 regarding Lease and Lease Amendments between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron, for Premises Located at the Landmark at Eastview in Tarrytown, New York, executed by Studley and Landmark Owner. 
       
  B.____Other Brokerage Agreements 
           10. 
    Letter Agreement dated October 2, 2003 regarding CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. Brokerage Commission Agreement regarding The Landmark at Eastview, 765 Old Saw Mill River Road (Portion) between Eastview Holdings LLC and Progenics  
     
   81 

Pharmaceuticals, executed by CB Richard Ellis Real Estate Services, Inc. (Broker) and Landmark Owner. 
           11. 
    Letter Agreement regarding Amended   Restated Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview and Progenics Pharmaceuticals at 769, 771, and 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by CB Richard Ellis, Inc. (Broker) and Landmark Owner. 
              12. 
    Letter Agreement dated December 17, 2008 regarding Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Pearl River Acquisition Corporation at 755 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by CB Richard Ellis, Inc. (Broker) and BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC ( Landmark Owner ). 
              13. 
    Letter Agreement dated May 18, 2009 regarding Lease between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Momentive Performance Materials, Inc. at 769 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by Cushman   Wakefield of Connecticut, Inc. (Broker) and Landmark Owner. 
              14. 
    Letter Agreement dated September 30, 2011 regarding Lease Amendment between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and ACS State and Local Solutions, Inc. at 777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown, New York, executed by Jones Lang Lasalle Brokerage, Inc. (Broker) and Landmark Owner. 
              15. 
    Letter Agreement regarding Thirteenth Lease Amendment between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. ( Regeneron ) for Premises Located at the Landmark at Eastview in Tarrytown, New York, dated as of June 10, 2013, executed by Studley, Inc. ( Studley ) as Broker and Landmark Owner.  
              16. 
    Letter Agreement dated June 26, 2015 regarding Lease Amendment between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron, for Premises located at The Landmark at Eastview in Tarrytown, New York, executed by Savills Studley, Inc. and Landmark Owner. 
              17. 
    Letter Agreement dated July 7, 2015 regarding Lease Amendment between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Regeneron for Premises Located at 767 and 777 Old Saw Mill River Road in Tarrytown, New York executed by Transwestern and Landmark Owner. 
              18. 
    Commission Agreement - Lease dated September 27, 2002 regarding Proposed Lease with ACS - State and Local Solutions, Inc. as tenant executed by Cushman   Wakefield of Connecticut, Inc. (Broker) and Eastview Holdings LLC. 

82 

SCHEDULE 7.1.1(e) 
    
  RENT ARREARAGES 
    
  [See attached.] 

83 

84 

SCHEDULE 7.1.1(f) 
    
  LEASING COSTS 
    
  [See attached.] 

85 

Schedule 7.1.1(f) 
  Seller Leasing Costs 
  (Projected through 12/31/2016) 

1    $  [****] 
   2    $  [****] 
   3    $  [****] 
   4    $  [****] 

86 

SCHEDULE 7.1.2 
    
  LITIGATION AND NON-COMPLIANCE AGAINST SELLERS    

None. 

87 

SCHEDULE 7.1.4 - I 
  EXISTING CONTRACTS 
  I. 

88 

89 

II. 
    Those certain Contracts set forth on Schedule 7.1.4-II herein are incorporated by reference. 

90 

Schedule 7.1.4 - II 
  MUST-ASSUME CONTRACTS 
    
           I. 
    Assumed Non-CapEx Contracts 
       
           A. 
    Energy Contracts 

B. 
    Service Contracts 

C. 
    Brokerage Agreements 
     Those certain Assumed Brokerage Agreements set forth on Schedule 7.1.1(d) herein are incorporated by reference.  
           D. 
    Telecommunications Contracts 
     Those certain Telecommunications Contracts set forth on Schedule 7.1.10 herein are incorporated by reference.  
  
   91 

II. 
    Uncompleted Capex Contracts 

92 

SCHEDULE 7.1.10 
  TELECOMMUNICATIONS CONTRACTS 
              
    Service Contract made and executed as of October 1, 2015, by and between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Kings III America, Inc., d/b/a Kings III Emergency Communications. 
                
    Service Contract made and executed as of January 15, 2016, by and between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Kings III America, Inc., d/b/a Kings III Emergency Communications. 
                
    Service Agreement dated January 23, 2013, between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and Spring Solutions, Inc.  
                
    Channel Service Agreement Order Form between The Landmark at Eastview and Avaya, executed April 6, 2007 and acknowledged June 11, 2007. 

93 

SCHEDULE 7.1.11 
    
  PENDING CONDEMNATION PROCEEDINGS 
    
  None. 

94 

SCHEDULE 7.1.12 
  TAX APPEAL PROCEEDINGS 
    
  Notice of Application for Review of Tax Assessments, Index No. 68339/2016, dated November 28, 2016, in the matter of the application of BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC, by Huff Wilkes, L.P.P., Agent, as petitioner, against The Town of Greenburgh, its assessor, and Board of Assessment Review, as respondents.   

95 

SCHEDULE 7.1.13 
  PURCHASE OPTIONS 
    
  Purchase Option, held by Home Depot pursuant to the Home Depot Ground Lease, dated as of September 7, 2006. 

96 

SCHEDULE 7.5.1(b) 
  AFFILIATE LEASES AND LICENSES TO BE TERMINATED 
    
  Lease by and between BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and BioMed Realty, L.P. dated as of August 31, 2015. 

97 

EXHIBIT  A  
  LEGAL DESCRIPTION 
  TRACT I: 
    
  ALL that certain plot, piece of land, situate, lying and being in the Town of Greenburgh, County of Westchester, and State of New York, being designated as Lot P-2 on a certain map entitled "Final Subdivision Plat prepared for Eastview Holdings LLC of premises located at Old Saw Mill River Road and NYS Route 9A Town of Greenburgh, Westchester County, New York Scale 1"=100'" prepared by John Meyer Consulting, PC, dated March 23, 2004 and last revised March 13, 2006, and filed on April 8, 2006 in the Office of the County Clerk of the County of Westchester as Filed Map No. 27754, and being more particularly described as: 
    
  Beginning at a rebar set on the southwesterly right of way line of Old Saw Mill River Road, where said rebar is located South 35 43'37" West, a distance of 101.93 feet from the intersection formed by the dividing line between the lands n/f BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW (SBL 116.15-1-2.2 in the Town of Mount Pleasant), and other lands of BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW (SBL 116.15-1-2.1 in the Town of Mount Pleasant), thence 
    
  Running the following courses and distances along the reputed owner Town of Greenburgh 
    
  South 00 05'33" East a distance of 93.33 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 100.00 feet, turning a central angle of 21 36'34", for an arc length of 37.72 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 10 42'49" West for a distance of 37.50 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 21 31'01" West a distance of 81.08 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the left having a radius of 98.25 feet, turning a central angle of 17 06'57", for an arc length of 29.35 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 12 57'32" West for a distance of 29.24 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 04 24'12" West a distance of 32.56 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 03 48'59" West a distance of 30.15 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 02 34'01" West a distance of 90.30 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 305.09 feet, turning a central angle of 34 07'44", for an arc length of 181.73 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 19 37'53" West for a distance of 179.06 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a reverse curve to the left having a radius of 362.65 feet, turning a central angle of 33 16'57", for an arc length of 210.66 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 20 03'17" West for a distance of 207.71 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 03 24'29" West a distance of 152.00 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 172.07 feet, turning a central angle of 31 44'41", for an arc length of 95.33 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 19 16'50" West for a distance of 94.12 feet to a rebar set, thence 
  
   A-1 

Along a compound curve to the right having a radius of 139.47 feet, turning a central angle of 71 37'16", for an arc length of 174.34 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 70 57'49" West for a distance of 163.21 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 73 13'58" West a distance of 128.84 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 16 03'11" West a distance of 16.68 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 73 56'49" West a distance of 29.11 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the left having a radius of 242.01 feet, turning a central angle of 35 55'48", for an arc length of 151.76 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 88 05'17" West for a distance of 149.29 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 70 07'17" West a distance of 92.14 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 440.98 feet, turning a central angle of 40 10'49", for an arc length of 309.25 feet, the chord of said arc bearing North 89 47'19" West for a distance of 302.95 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 20 18'00" West a distance of 20.89 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 65 49'54" West a distance of 101.52 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 1530.00 feet, turning a central angle of 21 27'50", for an arc length of 573.16 feet, the chord of said arc bearing North 55 05'59" West for a distance of 569.81 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a compound curve to the right having a radius of 400.00 feet, turning a central angle of 37 36'43", for an arc length of 262.58 feet, the chord of said arc bearing North 25 33'43" West for a distance of 257.89 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 58 03'06" West a distance of 1501.30 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 11 11'33" West a distance of 441.76 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along reputed owner Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc North 34 43'49" East a distance of 1146.62 feet to a rebar set, thence Running the following courses and distances along Lot 1 on a map entitled  Final Subdivision Plat Prepared for Eastview Holdings LLC  filed in Westchester County Clerk s Office, Division of Land Records on 11/15/2005 as Map No. 27669. 
    
  South 55 16'11" East a distance of 225.33 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 67 59'01" East a distance of 614.61 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a non-tangent curve to the right having a radius of 1124.93 feet, turning a central angle of 16 12'11", for an arc length of 318.13 feet, the chord of said arc bearing North 30 03'42" East for a distance of 317.07  feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a compound curve to the right having a radius of 450.05 feet, turning a central angle of 10 26'59", for an arc length of 82.08 feet, the chord of said arc bearing North 43 23'17" East for a distance of 81.97 feet to a rebar set, thence 

A-2 

North 32 22'35" East a distance of 262.04 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 27 10'46" East a distance of 172.97 feet to a rebar set, thence Running the following courses and distances along the southwesterly right of way line of Old Sawmill River Road, 
    
  South 63 22'33" East a distance of 24.28 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 68 16'40" East a distance of 63.98 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 71 57'20" East a distance of 48.14 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 75 31'00" East a distance of 167.65 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 75 03'30" East a distance of 417.19 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 71 58'00" East a distance of 46.04 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 70 36'00" East a distance of 53.02 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 67 40'50" East a distance of 36.36 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 66 14'50" East a distance of 71.78 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 63 42'50" East a distance of 155.58 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 63 47'50" East a distance of 270.49 feet to the rebar set and place of beginning. 
    
  NOTE FOR INFORMATION ONLY: Known as Tax Parcel - Section 7.71, Block 6, Lot 1 (Sub Lots 1.1, 1.1A, 1.1B, 1.1C and 3) 
    
  TRACT II: 
    
  ALL that certain plot, piece or parcel of land, situate, lying and being in the Town of Mount Pleasant, County of Westchester and State of New York, being designated as Lot 1 on a certain map entitled "Final Subdivision Plat prepared for Eastview Holdings LLC of premises located at Old Saw Mill River Road and NYS Route 9A Town of Mount Pleasant, Westchester County, New York Scale 1"=100'" prepared by John Meyer Consulting, PC, dated September 27, 2007 in the Office of the Clerk of the County of Westchester as Filed Map No. 28024, being more particularly described as: 
    
  Beginning at a rebar set on the northeasterly right of way line of Old Saw Mill River Road, at the intersection formed by the dividing line between the lands n/f BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW (SBL 116.15-1-2.2), and other lands of BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW(SBL 116.15-1-2.1), 
    
  Running the following courses and distances along the northeasterly right of way line of Old Saw Mill River Road 
    
  North 63 49'10" West a distance of 373.58 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 63 40'40" West a distance of 150.03 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 68 08'00" West a distance of 48.55 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 70 56'30" West a distance of 70.20 feet to a rebar set, thence 

A-3 

North 71 26'30" West a distance of 46.86 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 75 05'50" West a distance of 422.47 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 75 28'40" West a distance of 164.70 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 71 28'40" West a distance of 53.23 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 66 46'40" West a distance of 55.80 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 60 22'50" West a distance of 64.25 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 55 46'50" West a distance of 168.67 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 57 50'10" West a distance of 23.25 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 55 10'55" West a distance of 315.52 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along the dividing line between Reputed Owner Consolidated Edison and reputed owner BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW (SBL 116.15-1-2.1) North 41 22'40" East a distance of 117.30 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 88 40'52" East a distance of 368.78 feet to a point in Saw Mill River, thence Running the following courses and distances along the same and following the Saw Mill River 
    
  South 63 24'21" East a distance of 101.76 feet to a point, thence 
    
  South 82 58'51" East a distance of 62.51 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 67 02'49" East a distance of 39.00 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 40 05'34" East a distance of 35.47 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 22 26'57" East a distance of 54.23 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 12 57'05" East a distance of 73.98 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 46 15'28" East a distance of 50.93 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 57 39'41" East a distance of 47.17 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 39 04'03" East a distance of 72.47 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 21 22'50" East a distance of 121.63 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 23 17'46" East a distance of 104.78 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 29 08'32" East a distance of 26.42 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 53 38'21" East a distance of 27.20 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 69 06'38" East a distance of 34.18 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 50 34'22" East a distance of 41.23 feet to a point, thence 
  
   A-4 

North 20 13'22" East a distance of 59.81 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 28 16'38" East a distance of 37.59 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 48 06'01" East a distance of 70.84 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 03 30'01" East a distance of 194.44 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 17 33'46" East a distance of 100.88 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 44 40'00" East a distance of 31.11 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 86 48'15" East a distance of 40.05 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 49 30'38" East a distance of 41.87 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 08 08'06" West a distance of 73.68 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 26 13'54" East a distance of 87.21 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 19 32'46" West a distance of 69.89 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 45 20'00" West a distance of 31.11 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 48 51'07" East a distance of 116.18 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 21 54'57" East a distance of 47.67 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 19 25'35" West a distance of 27.51 feet to a point, thence 
    
  North 51 40'22" West a distance of 6.14 feet to a point, thence 
    
  Along North 41 22'40" East a distance of 1119.15 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along South 73 06'25" East a distance of 37.33 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along the southwesterly right of way line of Saw Mill River Road, South 07 54'30" East a distance of 532.24 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Running the following courses and distances along other lands of BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW (SBL 116.15-1-2.2) 
    
  South 82 05'30" West a distance of 53.22 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the left having a radius of 120.00 feet, turning a central angle of 66 50'29", for an arc length of 139.99 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 48 40'15" West for a distance of 132.19 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a reverse curve to the right having a radius of 480.00 feet, turning a central angle of 21 46'49", for an arc length of 182.47 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 26 08'26" West for a distance of 181.37 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 37 01'48" West a distance of 287.70 feet to a rebar set, thence 
  
   A-5 

South 46 17'40" West a distance of 85.62 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 57 32'20" West a distance of 65.29 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  North 61 07'50" West a distance of 113.60 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the left having a radius of 73.50 feet, turning a central angle of 82 49'02", for an arc length of 106.24 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 77 27'39" West for a distance of 97.23 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a compound curve to the left having a radius of 91.00 feet, turning a central angle of 68 00'38", for an arc length of 108.02 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 02 02'49" West for a distance of 101.79 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 31 57'30" East a distance of 305.66 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 30 02'00" West a distance of 347.72 feet to a point, thence 
    
  South 60 12'00" East a distance of 333.26 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 500.00 feet, turning a central angle of 21 06'38", for an arc length of 184.22 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 49 38'41" East for a distance of 183.18 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 39 05'22" East a distance of 174.39 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 160.00 feet, turning a central angle of 27 24'26", for   an arc length of 76.54 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 25 23'09" East for a distance of 75.81 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 11 40'56" East a distance of 147.46 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 160.00 feet, turning a central angle of 26 20'55", for an arc length of 73.58 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 01 29'32" West for a distance of 72.93 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 14 40'00" West a distance of 417.48 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  Along a tangent curve to the right having a radius of 160.00 feet, turning a central angle of 15 51'47", for an arc length of 44.30 feet, the chord of said arc bearing South 22 35'53" West for a distance of 44.16 feet to a rebar set, thence 
    
  South 30 21'46" West a distance of 251.53 feet to the place of beginning. 
    
  NOTE FOR INFORMATION ONLY: Known as Tax Parcel - Section 116.15, Block 1, Lot 2.1  
    
  TRACT III: 
    
  PARCEL A: 
    
  ALL that certain plot, piece or parcel of land, situate, lying and being in the Town of Mount Pleasant, County of Westchester and State of New York, being designated as Lot 2 on a certain map entitled "Final Subdivision Plat prepared for Eastview Holdings LLC of premises located at Old Saw Mill  
  
   A-6 

River Road and NYS Route 9A Town of Mount Pleasant Westchester County, New York Scale 1"=100'" prepared by John Meyer Consulting, PC, dated September 5, 2007 and last revised September 18, 2007 and filed September 27, 2007 in the Office of the Clerk of the County of Westchester as Filed Map No. 28024. 
    
  Excepting therefrom the following tract of land: 
    
  ALL that certain plot, piece or parcel of land, situate, lying and being in the Town of Mount Pleasant, County of Westchester and State of New York, being designated as Section 116.15, Block 1, Tax Lot 2.3 of the Tax Records of the Town of Mount Pleasant and as more particularly described as follows: 
    
  BEGINNING at a point along the West side of Saw Mill River Road (New York State Highway No. 52), said point being North 07 degrees 04 minutes 50 seconds West 1190.38 feet measured along said West side of Saw Mill River Road from the Northeasterly corner of Parcel 303-2 as shown on "Map of Land to be Acquired for the Improvement of: Old Saw Mill River Road" prepared by Westchester County Department of Public Works, filed as Map No. 19473 and recorded May 4, 1978; 
    
  THENCE through the aforesaid Tax Lot 2 the following courses and distances: South 82 degrees 05 minutes 30 seconds West, 81.27 feet to a point of curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 294.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 23 degrees 01 minutes 21 seconds, an arc distance of 118.14 feet to a point of reverse curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 280.00 foot radius curve to the left, through a central angle of 19 degrees 12 minutes 52 seconds, an arc distance of 93.90 feet to a point of reverse curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 270.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 41 degrees 53 minutes 41 seconds, an arc distance of 197.42 feet to a point of tangency; 
    
  THENCE North 52 degrees 12 minutes 20 seconds West, 9.33 feet to a point of curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 445.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 37 degrees 06 minutes 2 
  seconds, an arc distance of 288.19 feet to a point of tangency; 
    
  THENCE North 15 degrees 06 minutes 00 seconds West, 310.50 feet to a point of curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 360.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 52 degrees 07 minutes 50 seconds, an arc distance of 327.55 feet to a point of tangency; 
    
  THENCE North 37 degrees 01 minutes 50 seconds East, 387.10 feet to a point of curvature; 

A-7 

THENCE along a 480.00 foot radius curve to the left, through a central angle of 21 degrees 46 minutes 49 seconds, an arc distance of 182.46 feet to a point of reverse curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 120.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 66 degrees 50 minutes 29 seconds, an arc distance of 139.99 feet to a point of tangency; 
    
  THENCE through the aforesaid Tax Lot 2, North 82 degrees 05 minutes 30 seconds East 53.22 feet to the aforesaid west side of Saw Mill River Road, said point being South 07 degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds East 
  532.24 feet measured along said West side of Saw Mill River Road from the division line between lands now or formerly of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. and the aforesaid Tax Lot 2; 
    
  THENCE along said West side of Saw Mill River Road, South 07 degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds East, 
  800.05 feet and South 07 degrees 04 minutes 50 seconds East, 692.22 feet to the point of BEGINNING. 

PARCEL B: 
    
  ALL that certain plot, piece or parcel of land, situate, lying and being in the Town of Mount Pleasant, County of Westchester and State of New York, being designated as Section 116.15, Block 1, Tax Lot 2.3 of the Tax Records of the Town of Mount Pleasant and as more particularly described as follows: 
    
  BEGINNING at a point along the West side of the Saw Mill River Road (New York State Highway No. 52), said point being North 07 degrees 04 minutes 50 seconds West 1190.38 feet measured along said West side of the Saw Mill River Road from the Northeasterly corner of Parcel 303-2 as shown on "Map of Land to be Acquired for the Improvement of: Old Saw Mill River Road" prepared by Westchester County Department of Public Works, filed as Map No. 19473 and recorded May 4, 1978; 
    
  THENCE through the aforesaid Tax Lot 2 the following courses and distances: South 82 degrees 05 minutes 30 seconds West, 81.27 feet to a point of curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 294.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 23 degrees 01 minutes 21 seconds, an arc distance of 118.14 feet to a point of reverse curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 280.00 foot radius curve to the left, through a central angle of 19 degrees 12 minutes 52 seconds, an arc distance of 93.90 feet to a point of reverse curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 270.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 41 degrees 53 minutes 41 seconds, an arc distance of 197.42 feet to a point of tangency; 
    
  THENCE North 52 degrees 12 minutes 20 seconds West, 9.33 feet to a point of curvature; 
  
   A-8 

THENCE along a 445.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 37 degrees 06 minutes 2 seconds, an arc distance of 288.19 feet to a point of tangency; 
    
  THENCE North 15 degrees 06 minutes 00 seconds West, 310.50 feet to a point of curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 360.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 52 degrees 07 minutes 50 seconds, an arc distance of 327.55 feet to a point of tangency; 
    
  THENCE North 37 degrees 01 minutes 50 seconds East, 387.10 feet to a point of curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 480.00 foot radius curve to the left, through a central angle of 21 degrees 46 minutes 49 seconds, an arc distance of 182.46 feet to a point of reverse curvature; 
    
  THENCE along a 120.00 foot radius curve to the right, through a central angle of 66 degrees 50 minutes 29 seconds, an arc distance of 139.99 feet to a point of tangency; 
    
  THENCE still through the aforesaid Tax Lot 2, North 82 degrees 05 minutes 30 seconds East 53.22 feet to the aforesaid west side of Saw Mill River Road, said point being South 07 degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds East 
  532.24 feet measured along said West side of the Saw Mill River Road from the division line between lands now or formerly of Consolidated Edison Company of New York, Inc. and the aforesaid Tax Lot 2; 
    
  THENCE along said West side of the Saw Mill River Road, South 07 degrees 54 minutes 30 seconds East, 
  800.05 feet and South 07 degrees 04 minutes 50 seconds East, 692.22 feet to the point of BEGINNING.  
    
  NOTE FOR INFORMATION ONLY: Known as Tax Parcel 116.15, Block 1, Lot 2.3 
    
  TRACT IV: 
    
  ALL that certain plot, piece or parcel of land, situate, lying and being in the Town of Mount Pleasant, County of Westchester and State of New York, being designated as Section 116.15, Block 1, Tax Lots 5 and 6 of the Tax Records of the Town of Mount Pleasant and as more particularly described as follows: 
    
  BEGINNING at the intersection of the Northerly boundary line of Saw Mill River Road (State Highway No. 52), also known as Route 9A, as widened, with the Northerly boundary line of Grasslands Road; 
    
  THENCE along said Northerly boundary line of Grasslands Road South 86 degrees 43 minutes 47 seconds, West 34.19 feet to a point of curvature; 
    
  THENCE Westerly along a 225.00 foot radius curve deflecting to the right through a central angle of 47 degrees 34 minutes 53 seconds, an arc distance of 185.81 feet to a point on the Easterly boundary line of Old Saw Mill River Road; 
    
  THENCE Northerly along the Easterly boundary line of Old Saw Mill River Road the following courses and distances: 
    
  North 23 degrees 24 minutes 20 seconds West 18.96 feet; 

A-9 

North 33 degrees 37 minutes 30 seconds West 33.32 feet; 
    
  North 30 degrees 41 minutes 10 seconds West 79.50 feet to a point; 
    
  THENCE Northerly on a course connecting the Easterly boundary line of Old Saw Mill River Road with the 
  Southerly boundary line of a ramp connecting Old Saw Mill River Road with Saw Mill River Road, North 31 degrees 19 minutes 17 seconds East 52.17 feet to the intersection of a 185 foot radius curve, to which intersection a radial line bears South 05 degrees 46 minutes 57 seconds West; 
    
  THENCE Easterly along said Southerly boundary line of the ramp along said 185.00 foot radius curve deflecting to the left through a central angle of 53 degrees 28 minutes 04 seconds, an arc distance of 172.64 feet; 
    
  THENCE continuing along said Southerly boundary line of the ramp North 42 degrees 18 minutes 53 seconds East 80.44 feet to a point on the aforesaid Westerly boundary line of the Saw Mill River Road; 
    
  THENCE Southerly along said Westerly boundary line of the Saw Mill River Road, South 05 degrees 38 minutes 30 seconds East 277.85 feet and South 06 degrees 07 minutes 00 seconds East 62.61 feet to the point or place of BEGINNING. 
    
  NOTE FOR INFORMATION ONLY: Known as Tax Parcel 116.15, Block 1, Lots 5   6 

A-10 

EXHIBIT  B  
    
  [Reserved] 
  
   B-9     

EXHIBIT  C  
  FORM OF DEED 
  RECORDING REQUESTED BY,  AND WHEN RECORDED RETURN TO: 
  [___________________] 
  [___________________] 
  [___________________] 
  BARGAIN AND SALE DEED WITHOUT COVENANT 
  THIS INDENTURE, made as of the __ day of __________________, 2017 by [BMR LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC/BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW IV LLC], a Delaware limited liability company, having an office at [____________________________________] (   Grantor   ), in favor of [REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC., a New York corporation], having an office at [777 Old Saw Mill River Road, Tarrytown New York 10591] (   Grantee   ). 
  WITNESSETH, that Grantor, for and in consideration of Ten ($10.00) Dollars and other good and valuable consideration paid by Grantee, the receipt whereof is hereby acknowledged, does hereby grant and release to Grantee, its successors, and assigns forever, all that certain plot, piece or parcel of land, together with the buildings and improvements thereon erected, situate, lying and being in Westchester County, State of New York, more particularly described on   Exhibit A   attached hereto and made a part hereof (the    Premises   ). 
  TOGETHER with all right, title, and interest (if any) of Grantor in and to any streets and roads abutting the Premises to the center line thereof, as well as any gaps, strips, or gores on, around, or within the Premises; 
  TOGETHER with all right, title, and interest (if any) of Grantor in and to any hereditaments and appurtenances, and all of the estate and rights of Grantor, in each case relating to the Premises; 
  SUBJECT, HOWEVER, TO those matters set forth on   Exhibit B   attached hereto and made a part hereof. 
  TO HAVE AND TO HOLD the premises herein granted unto the Grantee and its successors and assigns forever; 
  AND, Grantor, in compliance with Section 13 of the Lien Law, covenants that Grantor will receive the consideration for this conveyance and will hold the right to receive such consideration as a trust fund to be applied first for the purpose of paying the cost of the improvement and will apply the same first for the purpose of paying the cost of the improvement before using any part of the total of the same for any other purpose. 
  
   C-1 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, Grantor has duly executed this instrument as of the day and year first above written. 
                       
    [BMR LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC/ BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW IV LLC], 
    a Delaware limited liability company 
  By:       

Name: 

Title: 

C-2 

STATE OF NEW YORK 
    ) 
        
    ) ss: 
      COUNTY OF NEW YORK 
    ) 

On ___________________, 201__ before me the undersigned, a Notary Public in and for said state, personally appeared   _____________  , personally known to be or proved to me on the basis of satisfactory evidence to be the person whose name is subscribed to the within instrument and acknowledged to me that he executed the same in his capacity, and that by his signature on the instrument, the person, or the entity upon behalf of which the person acted, executed the instrument. 
                     
    Notary Public 

C-3 

EXHIBIT A TO DEED 
  Legal Description 
  
   C-4 

EXHIBIT B TO DEED 
  Permitted Encumbrances 

C-5 

EXHIBIT  D         [FORM OF]        BILL OF SALE, ASSIGNMENT, AND ASSUMPTION        (Landmark at Eastview, Mt. Pleasant and Greenburgh, New York) 
    
  FOR VALUABLE CONSIDERATION, receipt of which is hereby acknowledged, the undersigned, [  BMR LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC/BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW IV LLC]  , a Delaware limited liability company (   Seller   ), hereby sells, transfers, assigns, and conveys to [REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC., a New York corporation] (   Buyer   ), with respect to the  Properties  (as hereinafter defined), the following: 
  1.  Personal Property  .  All right, title, and interest of Sellers in and to the  Personal Property  (as hereinafter defined). 
  2.        Leases  .  All right, title, and interest of Sellers in and to the  Leases  (as hereinafter defined). 
  3.        Contracts  .  All right, title, and interest of Sellers in and to the  Contracts  (as hereinafter defined).  
  4.        Other Intangible Property  .  All right, title, and interest of Sellers, to the extent assignable, in and to any other  Intangible Property  (as hereinafter defined). 
  This Bill Of Sale, Assignment, and Assumption is given pursuant to that certain agreement (the    Purchase Agreement   ) dated as of ________ ___, 2016, among Seller, [__________], and   [**  Buyer  **]     [**  _____________________, a _____________________ (as predecessor-in-interest to Buyer)  **]  , providing for, among other matters, the sale of the Properties.  The covenants, agreements, and limitations (including, but not limited to, the limitations and disclaimers provided in Sections 7.3, 7.4, 8, and 10.2 of the Purchase Agreement) provided in the Purchase Agreement with respect to the property conveyed hereunder are hereby incorporated herein by this reference as if herein set out in full.  Buyer hereby accepts the foregoing assignment and agrees to assume and discharge, in accordance with the terms thereof, (1) all of the obligations of Seller under the Leases and Contracts (to the extent assumed by Buyer at Closing under the Purchase Agreement), to the extent the same arise on or after the date hereof; (2) the obligation to pay all unpaid payments that are credited to Buyer under the proration provisions of the Purchase Agreement; and (3) the Leasing Costs relating to the Properties that are Buyer s responsibility under the Purchase Agreement.  This Bill Of Sale, Assignment, and Assumption shall inure to the benefit of and shall be binding upon Seller and Buyer, and their respective successors and assigns.  Such property is conveyed  as is  without warranty or representation.  As used herein, the    Closing Date   ,    Intangible Property     ,      Leases   ,    Leasing Costs   ,    Personal Property   ,    Properties    and    Contracts    shall have the respective meanings set forth for the same in the Purchase Agreement. 
  
   D-1 

[Signatures Appear on Following Page] 
  
   D-2 

This Bill Of Sale, Assignment, and Assumption may be executed in one or more counterparts, each of which shall be deemed an original, but all of which shall constitute one and the same document. 
                     DATED:          As of 
      
    , 2017 

SELLER 

[BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC/BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW IV LLC] 
      a Delaware limited liability company 
      By: 

Name: 

Title: 

BUYER: 

[REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 
      a New York corporation] 
      By: 

Name: 

Title: 

D-3 

EXHIBIT  E  
  [FORM OF] 
  NOTICE TO TENANTS 
  ______________, 201_ 
  VIA CERTIFIED MAIL      RETURN RECEIPT REQUESTED 
  To:    All Tenants 
           Re: 
    Landmark at Eastview, Mt. Pleasant and Greenburgh, New York 
     Ladies and Gentlemen: 
  Please be advised that, effective as of the date hereof, [BMR Landmark at Eastview LLC], a Delaware limited liability company (   Seller   ), sold its interest in the referenced building and assigned its interest in your lease at such building (the    Lease   ) to [REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC., a New York corporation] (   Buyer   ).  Consequently, Buyer is now your landlord and the security deposit, if any, under the Lease has been transferred to and received by Buyer.  Buyer is now responsible to account to you under the Lease and at law for the security deposit transferred by Seller.  All future notices and other communication to the landlord under the Lease should be delivered to Buyer at the following address: 

With a copy to: 

E-1 

All future rents and payments to be made by you under the Lease are to be made pursuant to separate rent payment instructions that will be delivered to you under separate cover by Buyer. 
  Thank you for your cooperation. 
  Very truly yours, 
  [BMR LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC]  ,  a Delaware limited liability company 
                 By: 
      
      Name: 
      
      Title: 

E-2 

EXHIBIT  F  
  [FORM OF SELLER TITLE CERTIFICATE]        Title Certificate   Indemnity      dated as of _________, 2017 
  Landmark at Eastview, Mt. Pleasant and Greenburgh, New York 

Certifications: 
      This Certificate is given with reference to that certain preliminary title report or title commitment dated as of __________, 2016 under Order No. __________ (such report or commitment being referred to herein as the  Commitment ), and issued by ______________________ (through its agent [ ]) ( Title Insurer ).  The undersigned ( Owner ) certifies the following to Title Insurer as to the above-referenced premises (the  Premises ) but only as to the period between January 27, 2016, and the date hereof (subject to any exceptions expressly noted below): 
  Mechanics Liens  : 
  A.      All labor, services or materials rendered or furnished to date in connection with the Premises or with the construction or repair of any building or improvements on the Premises contracted for or requested by Owner have been completed and paid for in full, with the possible exception of routine repairs and/or maintenance which have been or will be duly paid in the ordinary course of business; and 
  B.       
  To the actual knowledge of Owner, all other labor, services, or materials that have been rendered or furnished in connection with the Premises or with the construction or repair of any building or improvements on the Premises have been completed and paid for in full. 
  Tenants/Parties in Possession  : 
  Except as shown in the Commitment (with respect to tenancies of record), including matters disclosed in the underlying exceptions of record referenced therein, there are no tenants or other parties who are in possession or have the right to be in possession of said Premises, other than those tenants identified on the lease chart annexed hereto (and any subtenants thereunder), which tenants have rights as tenants only and do not have an option to purchase all or part of the Premises or right of first refusal affecting all or part of the Premises. 
  Options To Purchase or Rights of First Refusal: 
  But for the instant transaction, Owner has not entered into any unrecorded sale contracts, deeds, mortgages, or purchase options or purchase-related rights of first refusal affecting the Premises or  
  
   F-1 

improvements thereon, which are presently in effect and will survive the transfer of the Premises in connection with the instant transaction, except as set forth in the Commitment. 
  Covenants   Restrictions: 
  To the actual knowledge of Owner, (a) Owner has received no written notice of past or present violations of any effective covenants, conditions, or restrictions set forth in the Commitment (the  CC Rs ) which remain uncured, and (b) any charge or assessment provided for in any of the CC Rs has been or will be duly paid in the ordinary course. 
  Bankruptcy: 
  No proceedings in bankruptcy or receivership have been instituted by or against Owner (or its constituent entities) which are now pending, nor has Owner (or its constituent entities) made any assignment for the benefit of creditors which is in effect as to said Premises. 
  Exceptions to any of the foregoing:  [  List any exceptions, including, without limitation and as applicable, specific references to construction or payments that are the responsibility of Buyer, such as approved capital projects completed after the Effective Date and the Uncompleted Capex Contracts  ] _______________________________ 

Gap Indemnification: 
  Between the date hereof and the date of recording of the insured conveyance but in no event later than five (5) business days from the date hereof (hereinafter, the  Gap Period ), Owner has not taken or allowed and will not voluntarily take or allow any action to encumber the Premises in the Gap Period. 

Further Assurances: 
  Owner hereby undertakes and agrees to fully cooperate with Title Insurer in correcting any errors in the execution and acknowledgment of the insured conveyance. 

Counterparts: 
  This document may be executed in counterparts. 

Inducement and Indemnification: 
  Owner provides this document to induce Title Insurer to insure title to said Premises well knowing that it will do so only in complete reliance upon the matters asserted hereinabove and further, will indemnify and hold Title Insurer harmless against any loss or damage sustained as a result of any inaccuracy in the matters asserted hereinabove. 

F-2 

Knowledge/Survival: 
  Any statement  to the actual knowledge of Owner  (or similar phrase) shall mean that the  Designated Representative  (as hereinafter defined) of Owner has no knowledge that such statement is untrue (and, for this purpose, Owner s knowledge shall mean the present actual knowledge (excluding constructive or imputed knowledge) of the Designated Representative), but such Designated Representative shall not have any liability in connection herewith.  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary herein, (1) any cause of action for a breach of this document shall survive until six (6) months after the date hereof, at which time the provisions hereof (and any cause of action resulting from any breach not then in litigation in the jurisdiction where the Premises are situated) shall terminate; and (2) to the extent Title Insurer shall have knowledge as of the date hereof that any of the statements contained herein is false or inaccurate, then Owner shall have no liability with respect to the same.  The  Designated Representative  for Owner is Denis Sullivan.  The Designated Representative of Owner is an individual affiliated with, or employed by, Owner or its affiliates who has been directly involved in the asset management or property management of the Premises and is in a position to confirm the truth and accuracy of Owner s knowledge certifications hereunder concerning the Premises. 

See annexed Title Certificate   Indemnity signature pages 
  
   F-3 

Signature Page to Title Certificate   Indemnity 
                   Owner: 

[BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC], 
      a Delaware limited liability company 

By: 

Name: 

Title: 

F-4 

Lease Chart for Title Certificate   Indemnity 
  See annexed 

F-5 

EXHIBIT  G  
  [FORM OF] 
  SELLER CLOSING CERTIFICATE 
  THIS SELLER CLOSING CERTIFICATE (this    Closing Certificate   ) is made as of the ____ day of [_______________], 2017, by [BMR Landmark at Eastview LLC], a Delaware limited liability company (   Seller   ), to [REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC., a New York corporation] (   Buyer   ). 
  RECITALS: 
  A. Pursuant to that certain Purchase Agreement dated as of ______________, 2016, by and between Seller, [__________] and Buyer or its respective predecessor-in-interest (together with all amendments and addenda thereto, the    Agreement   ), Sellers have agreed to sell to Buyer that certain property located in Mt. Pleasant and Greenburgh, New York. 
  B. The Agreement requires the delivery of this Closing Certificate. 
  NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to the Agreement, Seller does hereby represent and warrant to Buyer that: 
  1. Except as specifically set forth below, each and all of the representations and warranties of Seller contained in Section 7.1 of the Agreement are correct, in all material respects, as of the date hereof as if made on and as of the date hereof. 
  Exceptions  :  See   Exhibit  A    attached and made a part hereof. 
  2. This Certificate is subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement (including, without limitation, all limitations set forth in Sections 7.3, 7.4, 8, and 10.2). 
  [Signatures Appear on Following Page] 
  
   G-1 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Closing Certificate as of the day and year first above written. 
                   SELLERS: 

[BMR-LANDMARK AT EASTVIEW LLC], 
      a Delaware limited liability company 

By: 

Name: 

Its: 

G-2 

EXHIBIT  A  
  EXCEPTIONS TO SELLERS  REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 
  [Add exceptions at Closing, including substitution of updated Exhibits and Schedules, as needed.] 

G-3 

EXHIBIT  H  
  [FORM OF]        BUYER CLOSING CERTIFICATE 
  THIS BUYER CLOSING CERTIFICATE (this    Closing Certificate   ) is made as of the ____ day of [______________], 2017 by [REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC., a New York corporation] (   Buyer   ), to BMR Landmark at Eastview LLC, a Delaware limited liability company and BMR Landmark at Eastview IV LLC, a Delaware limited liability company (collectively,    Sellers   ). 
  RECITALS: 
  A.    Pursuant to that certain Purchase Agreement dated as of [____________], 2016, among Sellers and Buyer or its predecessor-in-interest (together with all amendments and addenda thereto, the    Agreement   ), Buyer has agreed to purchase from Sellers that certain property located in Mt. Pleasant and Greenburgh, New York. 
  B.    The Agreement requires the delivery of this Closing Certificate. 
  NOW THEREFORE, pursuant to the Agreement, Buyer does hereby represent and warrant to Sellers that: 
  1. Except as specifically set forth below, each and all of the representations and warranties of Buyer contained in Section 7.2 of the Agreement are correct, in all material respects, as of the date hereof as if made on and as of the date hereof. 
  Exceptions  :  See   Exhibit  A    attached and made a part hereof. 
  2. This Certificate is subject to the terms and conditions of the Agreement (including, without limitation, all applicable limitations set forth in Sections 7.3, 7.4, and 10.2). 
  [Signature Appears on Following Page] 
  
   H-1 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the undersigned has executed this Closing Certificate as of the day and year first above written. 
               BUYER: 
        
      By: 
      Name: 
      Title: 

H-2 

EXHIBIT  A  
  EXCEPTIONS TO BUYER S REPRESENTATIONS AND WARRANTIES 
  [Add exceptions at Closing, if any] 

H-3 

EXHIBIT  I  
  [FORM OF] 
  FIRPTA CERTIFICATE 
    
  Section 1445 of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the "  Code  "), provides that a transferee of a U.S. real property interest must withhold tax if the transferor is a foreign person.  For U.S. tax purposes (including Section 1445), the owner of a disregarded entity (which has legal title to a U.S. real property interest under local law) will be the transferor of the property and not the disregarded entity.  To inform Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., a New York corporation ("  Transferee  ") that withholding of tax is not required upon the disposition of a U.S. real property interest by BioMed Realty, L.P., a Maryland limited partnership (   Transferor   ), which is the tax owner by reason of its ownership of BMR-Landmark at Eastview LLC and BMR-Landmark at Eastview IV LLC, the undersigned hereby certifies the following on behalf of Transferor: 
  (a) Transferor is not a foreign corporation, foreign partnership, foreign trust or foreign estate (as those terms are defined in the Code and Treasury Regulations); 
  (b) Transferor is not a disregarded entity as defined in Treasury Regulations Section 1.1445-2(b)(2)(iii). 
  (c) Transferor s U.S. employer identification number is 20-1320636.  
  (d) Transferor s office address is 17190 Bernardo Center Drive, San Diego, CA 92128. 
  Transferor understands that this certification may be disclosed to the Internal Revenue Service by Transferee and that any false statement contained herein could be punished by fine, imprisonment or both. 
    
  [Signature Page Follows] 
  
   I-1 

Under penalty of perjury, I declare that I have examined this certification and to the best of my knowledge and belief it is true, correct and complete, and I further declare that I have the authority to sign this document on behalf of Transferor. 
  [  ], 2017 
  BIOMED REALTY, L.P. 
    
                   By: 

Name: 

Title: 

I-2 

EXHIBIT  J-1  
  [FORM OF] 
  TENANT ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE 
           Re: 
    Landmark at Eastview 
     Ladies and Gentlemen: 
  The undersigned (   Tenant   ) certifies with respect to the lease (the    Lease   ) more particularly described in the attached   Schedule A   which is hereby incorporated (the    Schedule   ) that: 
  1.    Tenant is the tenant under the Lease; 
  2.    The summary of the terms of the Lease contained in the Schedule is true and correct; 
  3.    Tenant has accepted possession of the premises (the    Premises   ) under the Lease; 
  4.    There are no rent abatements or free rent periods now or in the future other than as may be set forth on the Schedule; 
  5.    The Lease is in full force and effect and, except as may be indicated on the Schedule, has not been assigned, modified, supplemented or amended in any way and Tenant has no notice of any assignment, pledge or hypothecation by the landlord (   Landlord   ) under the Lease or of the rentals thereunder; 
  6.    The Lease represents the entire agreement between Tenant and Landlord with respect to the Premises; 
  7.    All construction and other obligations of a material nature to be performed by Landlord have been satisfied, except as may be indicated on the Schedule; 
  8.    Any payments by Landlord to Tenant for tenant improvements which are required under the Lease have been made, except as may be indicated on the Schedule; 
  9.    On this date, there are no existing defenses or offsets which Tenant has against the enforcement of the Lease by Landlord and no event exists which with the giving of notice, the passage of time or both would constitute a default by Tenant, or to the best of Tenant s knowledge, a default by Landlord, under the Lease; 
  10.    Tenant is not entitled to any offsets, abatements, deductions or otherwise against the rent payable under the Lease from and after the date hereof, except as may be indicated on the Schedule; 
  
   J1-1 

11.    No rental (including expense reimbursements), other than for the current month, has been paid in advance, except as may be indicated on the Schedule; 
  12.    Except as set forth in the Lease, Tenant has no purchase, extension, expansion, rights of first offer, rights of first refusal, exclusives, right to lease other premises, or rights to have Landlord perform Tenant s obligations under leases of other premises; and 
  13.    Tenant has no right to terminate the Lease except as set forth in the Lease. 
  The truth and accuracy of the certifications contained herein may be relied upon by (i) Landlord, (ii) any buyer of the Property and its successors or assigns (   Buyer   ), (iii) each lender (   Lender   ) of Landlord or Buyer (or any of their respective direct or indirect owners), and its successors, participants, assigns and transferees, (iv) any rating agency or trustee involved in a securitization of one or more loans made by a Lender, and (v) any servicer of any such loan (collectively, the    Reliance Parties   ), and said certifications shall be binding upon Tenant and its successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of the Reliance Parties. 
    
  Very truly yours,        [ Operating_As ]     

J1-2 

SCHEDULE A 
  Summary of Lease Terms 
  (1)    Name of Tenant:  Operating_As  
  (2)    Lease Date:  Lease_Date  
  (3)    Amendment Dates, Separate Agreements, if any:  
                  Lease__License_Agreement  
     Lease_Date  
       Document_1  
     Document_1_Date  
       Document_2  
     Document_2_Date  
       Document_3  
     Document_3_Date  
       Document_4  
     Document_4_Date  

(4)    Square Footage:   Square_Feet  
  (5)    Lease Commencement Date:   Commence_Date           Current Lease Expiration:  Expiration_Date  
                   (6)   Current Monthly Base Rent: 
    $ Base_Monthly Rent  
    paid through: __________ 
      Current Monthly Expense Reimbursement: 
    $   Total_Exp  
    paid through: __________ 
      Other Current Monthly Rent Not Otherwise Identified Above: 
    $   Other  
    paid through: __________ 
      Current Total Monthly Rent: 
    $   Total_Rent  
      
              Tenant has the following abatement(s) remaining:  Free_Rent  
        
      (7)   Security Deposit:  $ Security_Deposit    Form: [Cash or Letter of Credit] 

(8)    Percentage Rent:     
  (9)    Assignees/Subtenants:  Subtenant  
  (10)    Lease Guarantor(s):  Guarantor  
  (11)     Tenant Improvement Allowance Balance 

J1-3 

EXHIBIT  J-2  
  [FORM OF] 
  CONTRACTOR ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE 
    
  FORM OF CONTRACTOR ESTOPPEL 
  CONTRACT ESTOPPEL CERTIFICATE 
           Re: 
    Landmark at Eastview 
     Ladies and Gentlemen: 
  The undersigned (   Contractor   ) certifies with respect to the contract (the    Contract   ) more particularly described in the attached   Schedule A   which is hereby incorporated (the    Schedule   ) that: 
  1. The summary of the terms of the Contract contained in Schedule A is true and correct.     
  The truth and accuracy of the certifications contained herein may be relied upon by (i) Owner, (ii) any buyer of the Property and its successors or assigns (   Buyer   ), (iii) each lender (   Lender   ) of Owner or Buyer (or any of their respective direct or indirect owners), and its successors, participants, assigns and transferees, (iv) any rating agency or trustee involved in a securitization of one or more loans made by a Lender, and (v) any servicer of any such loan (collectively, the    Reliance Parties   ), and said certifications shall be binding upon Contractor and its successors and assigns, and inure to the benefit of the Reliance Parties. 
    
  Very truly yours,        [____________]         

K-1 

SCHEDULE A 
                 Summary of Contract Terms 
      (1) 
    Name of Contractor 
      (2) 
    Contract Date 
      (3) 
    Amendment Dates, Executed Change Orders, if any: 
      (5) 
    Contract Commencement Date: 
        
    Current Contract Expiration: 
      (6) 
    Amount Paid Under Contract: 
      (7) 
    Amount Owed Under Contract: 
      (8) 
    Retainage Amounts: 
      (9) 
    Remaining Work To Be Completed: 

J1-2 

</EX-10.35>

<EX-21.1>
 8
 regn-ex_211x12312016x10k.htm
 SUBSIDIARIES OF REGENERON PHARMACUTICALS, INC.

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.1  
    
  SUBSIDIARIES OF REGENERON PHARMACEUTICALS, INC. 

Name of Subsidiary* 
      
    State or Other Jurisdiction of Incorporation or Organization 
        
    Loop Road Holdings LLC 
      
    New York 
        
    Old Saw Mill Holdings LLC 
      
    New York 
        
    OSMR Holdings 
      
    Bermuda 
        
    OSMR International 
      
    Bermuda 
        
    Regeneron Assurance, Inc. 
      
    New York 
        
    Regeneron Belgium BVBA 
      
    Belgium 
        
    Regeneron Capital International B.V. 
      
    The Netherlands 
        
    Regeneron Genetics Center LLC 
      
    Delaware 
        
    Regeneron Healthcare Solutions, Inc. 
      
    New York 
        
    Regeneron International Holdings LLC 
      
    Delaware 
        
    Regeneron International Unlimited Company 
      
    Ireland 
        
    Regeneron Ireland Holdings Unlimited Company 
      
    Ireland 
        
    Regeneron Ireland Unlimited Company 
      
    Ireland 
        
    Regeneron Spain, S.L.U. 
      
    Spain 
        
    Regeneron UK Limited 
      
    United Kingdom 
        
    Rockwood Road Holdings LLC 
      
    New York 
        
    _____________ 

*  Directly or indirectly wholly owned by Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 9
 regn-ex_231x12312016x10k.htm
 CONSENT OF PRICEWATERHOUSECOOPERS LLP

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.1 

CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S 8     (Nos. 333-61132, 333-97375, 333-119257, 333-151941, 333-169569, 333-174863, 333-196799, and 333-198794) of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc., of our report dated February 9, 2017 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10 K. 

/s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
    
  Florham Park, New Jersey                                                                        
  February 9, 2017 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 10
 regn-ex_311x12312016x10k.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1  
  Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 
  Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act 
  of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to 
  Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
    
  I, Leonard S. Schleifer, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                     Date:  
    February 9, 2017 
    /s/ Leonard S. Schleifer 

Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D. 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 11
 regn-ex_312x12312016x10k.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CFO PURSUANT TO RULE 13A-14(A)

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2  
  Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 
  Rule 13a-14(a) under the Securities Exchange Act 
  of 1934, as Adopted Pursuant to 
  Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
    
  I, Robert E. Landry, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant's disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant's most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant's fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant's internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant's other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant's auditors and the audit committee of the registrant's board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant's ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 
       
                     Date: 
    February 9, 2017 
    /s/ Robert E. Landry 

Robert E. Landry 

Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32>
 12
 regn-ex_32x12312016x10k.htm
 CERTIFICATION OF CEO AND CFO PURSUANT TO 18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32  
  Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 
  18 U.S.C. Section 1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to 
  Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Regeneron Pharmaceuticals, Inc. (the "Company") on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016 as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the "Report"), Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D., as Principal Executive Officer of the Company, and Robert E. Landry, as Principal Financial Officer of the Company, each hereby certifies, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, to the best of his knowledge, that:  
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  
              (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  
       
               /s/ Leonard S. Schleifer 
      Leonard S. Schleifer, M.D., Ph.D. 
      President and Chief Executive Officer 
      (Principal Executive Officer) 
      February 9, 2017 
        
      /s/ Robert E. Landry 
      Robert E. Landry 
      Senior Vice President, Finance and Chief Financial Officer  
      (Principal Financial Officer) 
      February 9, 2017 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 13
 regn-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 14
 regn-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 15
 regn-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 16
 regn-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 17
 regn-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 18
 regn-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

