<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170223_10-K_edgar_data_798354_0000798354-17-000006_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>9437100</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>631849</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>553848</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3570288</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3258809</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1213125</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>62</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>23</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000798354-17-000006.hdr.sgml : 20170223
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170223164912
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000798354-17-000006
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		89
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170223
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170223

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FISERV INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000798354
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMPUTER PROCESSING & DATA PREPARATION [7374]
		IRS NUMBER:				391506125
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			WI
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-14948
		FILM NUMBER:		17633220

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		255 FISERV DR
		STREET 2:		PO BOX 979
		CITY:			BROOKFIELD
		STATE:			WI
		ZIP:			53045
		BUSINESS PHONE:		4148795000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		255 FISERV DRIVE
		CITY:			BROOKFIELD
		STATE:			WI
		ZIP:			53045

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000798354-17-000006.txt : 20170223

10-K
 1
 fisv1231201610-k.htm
 10-K

Document 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, DC 20549 

FORM 10-K 

OR 
                   
    TRANSITION REPORT PURSUANT TO SECTION 13 OR 15(d) OF THE SECURITIES EXCHANGE ACT OF 1934 
  For the transition period from                  to                

Commission file number:          0-14948 
  Fiserv, Inc. 
  (Exact Name of Registrant as Specified in Its Charter) 
                   Wisconsin 
  (State or Other Jurisdiction 
  of Incorporation or Organization) 
      
    39-1506125 
  (I.R.S. Employer 
  Identification No.) 

255 Fiserv Dr., Brookfield, WI 53045 
  (Address of Principal Executive Offices, Including Zip Code) 
  Registrant s telephone number, including area code:                     (262) 879-5000 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                   Title of Each Class 
      
    Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 
      Common Stock, par value $0.01 per share 
      
    The NASDAQ Stock Market LLC 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act:            None 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.  Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Act. 
  Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes            No      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes           No      
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.        
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer,  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
  Large Accelerated Filer           Accelerated Filer           Non-Accelerated Filer           Smaller Reporting Company      
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act). Yes           No      
  The aggregate market value of the common stock of the registrant held by non-affiliates as of June 30,   2016   (the last trading day of the second fiscal quarter) was   $23,949,604,597   based on the closing price of the registrant s common stock on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on that date. The number of shares of the registrant s common stock, $0.01 par value per share, outstanding at   February 16, 2017   was   214,563,950  . 
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Part III of this report incorporates information by reference to the registrant s proxy statement for its   2017   annual meeting of shareholders, which proxy statement will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2016  . 

Table of Contents  

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page       
      PART I 

Item 1. 
     Business  
    1 

Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    7 

Item 1B. 
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    11 

Item 2. 
     Properties  
    11 

Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    11 

Item 4. 
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    11 

Executive Officers of the Registrant  
    12 

PART II 

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    14 

Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    16 

Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    16 

Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    26 

Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    27 

Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    50 

Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    50 

Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    52 

PART III 

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    52 

Item 11. 
     Executive Compensation  
    52 

Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    52 

Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    53 

Item 14. 
     Principal Accounting Fees and Services  
    53 

PART IV 

Item 15. 
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    54 

Item 16. 
     Form 10-K Summary  
    54 

Signatures  
    55 

i 

Table of Contents  

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K contains  forward-looking statements  intended to qualify for the safe harbor from liability established by the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements include those that express a plan, belief, expectation, estimation, anticipation, intent, contingency, future development or similar expression, and can generally be identified as forward-looking because they include words such as  believes,   anticipates,   expects,   could,   should  or words of similar meaning. Statements that describe our future plans, objectives or goals are also forward-looking statements. The forward-looking statements in this report involve significant risks and uncertainties, and a number of factors, both foreseen and unforeseen, could cause actual results to differ materially from our current expectations. The factors that may affect our results include, among others: pricing and other actions by competitors; the capacity of our technology to keep pace with a rapidly evolving marketplace; the impact of market and economic conditions on the financial services industry; the impact of a security breach or operational failure on our business; the effect of legislative and regulatory actions in the United States and internationally; our ability to comply with government regulations; our ability to successfully identify, complete and integrate acquisitions, and to realize the anticipated benefits associated with the same; the impact of our strategic initiatives; and other factors discussed in this report under the heading  Risk Factors.  You should consider these factors carefully in evaluating forward-looking statements and are cautioned not to place undue reliance on such statements, which speak only as of the date of this report. We undertake no obligation to update forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances occurring after the date of this report. We are not including the information provided on the websites referenced herein as part of, or incorporating such information by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
   
  PART I 
  In this report, all references to  we,   us  and  our  refer to Fiserv, Inc. ( Fiserv ), a Wisconsin corporation, and, unless the context otherwise requires, its consolidated subsidiaries. 
   
  Item 1.  Business 
  Overview 
  Fiserv, Inc. is a leading global provider of financial services technology. We are publicly traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market and part of the S P 500 Index. We serve over   12,000   clients worldwide, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, retailers, merchants, mutual savings banks, and building societies. We provide account processing systems; electronic payments processing products and services, such as electronic bill payment and presentment services, card-based transaction processing and network services, ACH transaction processing, account-to-account transfers, and person-to-person payments; internet and mobile banking systems; and related services including document and payment card production and distribution, check processing and imaging, source capture systems, and lending and risk management products and services. Most of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. Our operations are principally located in the United States where we operate data and transaction processing centers, provide technology support, develop software and payment solutions, and offer consulting services. We also own a 49% interest in StoneRiver Group, L.P. ( StoneRiver ), which is comprised of our former insurance services businesses. 
  In   2016  , we had   $5.5 billion   in total revenue,   $1.4 billion   in operating income and   $1.4 billion   of net cash provided by operating activities from continuing operations. Processing and services revenue, which in   2016   represented   84%   of our total revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of   three to five   years and high renewal rates. Revenue from clients outside the United States comprised approximately   5%   of total revenue in   2016   and   6%   in each of   2015   and   2014  . 
  We have grown our business by developing highly specialized services and product enhancements, extending our capabilities through innovation, adding new clients, selling additional products and services to existing clients, and acquiring businesses that complement ours, which has enabled us to deliver a wide range of integrated products and services and has created new opportunities for growth. 
  We originally incorporated in Delaware in 1984 and reincorporated as a Wisconsin corporation in 1992. Our headquarters are located at 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, and our telephone number is (262) 879-5000. 
  Our operations are reported in the Payments and Industry Products ( Payments ) and Financial Institution Services ( Financial ) business segments. Financial information regarding our business segments is included in Note   8     to the consolidated financial statements. 
  
   1 

     Table of Contents  

Payments 
  The businesses in our Payments segment provide financial institutions and other companies with the products and services required to process electronic payment transactions and to offer their customers access to financial services and transaction capability through digital channels. Financial institutions and other companies have increasingly relied on third-party providers for those products and services, either on a licensed software or outsourced basis, as an increasing number of payment transactions are completed electronically as our clients  customers seek the convenience of 24-hour digital access to their financial accounts. Within the Payments segment, we primarily provide electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, and other electronic payments software and services. Our businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. Our solutions in the Payments segment include:  
  Electronic Payments 
  Our electronic payments business is comprised of electronic bill payment and presentment services and other electronic payment services for businesses and consumers, such as person-to-person payments, account-to-account transfers, account opening and funding, and small business invoicing and payments. Our principal electronic bill payment and presentment product, CheckFree        RXP       , allows our clients  customers: to manage household bills via an easy-to-use, online tool; to view billing and payment information; to pay and manage all of their bills in one place; for certain billers, to experience speed comparable to payment at a biller s site via same-day bill payment; and to make convenient next-day payments to many of the companies with which they do business. We use our systems to process the vast majority of the payment transactions that we handle, which enables us to improve our economies of scale. Once a consumer has accessed the system through a financial institution, he or she can elect to pay an electronic bill delivered by us or can instruct the system to pay individuals or companies that have bank accounts located within the U.S. 
  Our person-to-person payments solution, Popmoney       , allows consumers a convenient way to send and receive money while offering financial institutions the opportunity to generate new transaction-based revenue, attract new accounts and increase loyalty among existing customers. Popmoney Instant Payments extends the functionality of the Popmoney personal payment service by enabling near real-time exchange of funds. Popmoney can be accessed through the www.popmoney.com website, our mobile applications for iPhone        and Android       , or the websites and mobile banking applications of participating financial institutions. As of December 31,   2016  , more than 2,500 financial institutions have agreed to offer our person-to-person payments services to their customers. 
  Digital Channels 
  Our principal digital consumer and business banking products are Architect       ,       Corillian Online       , Corillian        Business Online and Mobiliti       . Our Corillian product suite supports multiple lines of banking businesses and has been designed to be highly scalable to meet the evolving needs of our clients. This structure enables our clients to deploy new services by adding and integrating applications, such as electronic bill payment, person-to-person payments and personal financial management tools, to any internet connected point-of-presence. Our Mobiliti product suite provides a variety of mobile banking and payments services to our clients and their customers, including balance inquiry, transaction history, bill payment, person-to-person payments and transfers, via mobile browser, downloadable application for smart phones and tablets, and text message. We also provide the advanced capabilities of Corillian Online and Mobiliti as an outsourced service, known as Corillian Online ASP and Mobiliti ASP. As of December 31,   2016  , we had approximately 2,400 mobile banking clients.  
  In the first quarter of 2016, we completed our purchase of the Community Financial Services business of ACI Worldwide, Inc., adding a suite of digital banking and payments solutions, including Architect, which supports online, mobile and tablet banking for retail and small business customers on a single platform. 
  Card Services 
  Our card services business is a leader in electronic funds transfer and provides a total payments solution through a variety of products and services. We provide thousands of financial institution clients with a full range of credit and debit processing services, including: ATM monitoring, tokenization, loyalty and reward programs, real-time person-to-person payments, customized authorization processing, direct access and settlement for networks, and risk management solutions. We own and operate the Accel        network, which serves over 3,200 financial institutions with funds access at over 400,000 ATMs and incorporates CardFree Cash   SM    access as well as EMV        chip and traditional magnetic stripe cards. Our Accel network point of sale support delivers comprehensive coverage of PIN and signature authentication support at physical and electronic commerce merchants across the country. Our digital enablement capability provides our clients  consumers with mobile-based,  
  
   2 

     Table of Contents  

customizable card management and alert tools that drive engagement and revenue for our issuers, and our risk management tools and portfolio management services are integrated with real-time fraud decisioning.  
  Biller Solutions 
  Our biller business provides electronic billing and payment services to companies that deliver bills to their customer base, such as utilities, telephone and cable companies, consumer lending institutions, and insurance providers, enabling our biller clients to reduce costs, collect payments faster, increase customer satisfaction, and provide customers flexible, easy-to-use ways to view and pay their bills. In the first quarter of 2016, we acquired the Convenience Pay Services business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, which enables providers to accept electronic payments from their consumers through multiple channels, thereby expanding our biller solution offerings. 
  Consumers use our electronic billing and payment systems by viewing or paying a bill through a financial institution s bill payment application, use of a biller s website, mobile application or automated phone system, www.mycheckfree.com, or by paying in person at one of more than 24,000 nationwide walk-in payment locations. These diverse services allow our clients  customers to view and pay bills wherever, whenever and however they feel most comfortable. Furthermore, because our biller clients are able to receive all of these services from us, we can eliminate the operational complexity and expense of supporting multiple vendor systems or in-house developed systems. 
  Output Solutions 
  Our output solutions business provides business communication solutions to clients across a wide variety of industries, including financial services, healthcare, retail, utilities, and travel and entertainment. Our products and services include: electronic document management through our electronic document delivery products and services; card manufacturing, personalization and mailing; statement production and mailing; design and fulfillment of direct mail solutions; forms distribution; laser printing and mailing; branded merchandise; and office supplies. 
  Investment Services 
  Our investment services business provides technology solutions that enable financial planning, portfolio management and trading, model management, performance measurement, and reporting products and services to approximately 300 financial service organizations, including broker dealers, registered investment advisors, banks, asset managers and insurance companies that deliver financial advice and managed account products to U.S. retail investors. Our investment services business also supports global institutional asset managers and asset servicers with portfolio accounting, performance analytics, fee billing and revenue management, and post-trade processing technology. Our primary product, the Unified Wealth Platform, is a real-time portfolio management, trading and reporting system used by some of the largest brokerage firms and asset managers in the U.S. offering managed accounts, based on assets under management. 
  Risk Management Solutions 
  Our risk management solutions business provides financial and risk management products and services that deliver operating efficiencies and management insight which enable our clients to protect and grow their businesses. Our Enterprise Performance Management and Financial Control Solutions offerings include budgeting and planning, financial accounting, and automated reconciliation and account certification tools to facilitate a robust assessment environment and efficient close process for our clients. These solutions are further complemented by fraud detection and mitigation through our predictive analytics solution, Fraud Risk and Anti-Money Laundering Compliance Management. 
  Financial 
  The businesses in our Financial segment provide financial institutions with the products and services they need to run their operations. Many financial institutions that previously developed their own software systems and maintained their own data processing operations now license software from third parties or outsource their data processing requirements by contracting with third-party processors. This has allowed them to reduce costs and enhance their products, services, capacity and capabilities. The licensing of software reduces the need for costly technical expertise within a financial institution, and outsourcing data processing operations reduces the infrastructure and other costs required to operate systems internally. Within the Financial segment, we provide banks, thrifts, credit unions, and leasing and finance companies with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Many of the products and services that we sell are integrated with solutions from our Payments segment such as electronic bill payment and presentment, internet and mobile banking, debit processing and network services, and person-to-person payments. Our solutions in the Financial segment include: 
  
   3 

     Table of Contents  

Account Processing 
  We provide account servicing and management technology solutions to our bank, thrift and credit union clients, as well as a range of integrated, value-added banking products and services. Account processing solutions are the principal systems that enable a financial institution to operate systems that process customer deposit and loan accounts, an institution s general ledger, central information files and other financial information. These solutions also include extensive security, report generation and other features that financial institutions need to process transactions for their customers, as well as to comply with applicable regulations. Although many of our clients contract to obtain a majority of their processing requirements from us, our software design allows clients to start with one application and, as needed, add applications and features developed by us or by third parties. We support a broad range of client-owned peripheral devices manufactured by a variety of vendors, which reduces a new client s initial conversion expenses, enhances existing clients  ability to change technology and broadens our market opportunity. 
  The principal account processing solutions used by our bank and thrift clients are Cleartouch       , DNA       , Precision       , Premier       , Signature        and TotalPlus       . The principal account processing solutions primarily used by our credit union clients are Advantage       , Charlotte   SM   , CubicsPlus       , CUnify       , CUSA       , DataSafe       , DNA, Galaxy       , OnCU       , Portico       , Reliance       , Spectrum        and XP2       . The Signature and DNA systems are available both domestically and internationally. In addition, we offer Agiliti        as a software-as-a-service solution to the UK financial services industry. Account processing solutions are generally offered as an outsourced service or as licensed software for installation on client-owned or hosted computer systems. 
  Item Processing 
  Our item processing business offers products and services to financial institutions and intermediaries. Through the Fiserv Clearing Network, we provide complete check clearing and image exchange services. Other solutions include image archive with online retrieval, in-clearings, exceptions and returns, statements and fraud detection. We also provide consulting services, business operations services and related software products that facilitate the transformation of our clients  check capture environments from paper-based to electronic. 
  Lending and Other Solutions 
  Our lending business offers life-of-loan digital products and services to financial institutions and market intermediaries including loan originations, servicing and default systems primarily for auto, consumer and real estate. In addition, our lending solutions include a full complement of professional services, such as customization, business process outsourcing, training, consulting and implementation services. 
  Other businesses in this segment provide solutions for ACH, cash and treasury management, case management and resolution, and source capture optimization to the financial services industry. Our offerings include Immediate Funds   SM   , PEP+       , Integrated Currency Manager , Device Manager , CorPoint       , and our remote deposit capture solutions branded as Source Capture Solutions       . 
  Our Strategy 
  Our vision is to be a global leader in transaction-based technology solutions. Our mission is to provide integrated technology and services solutions that enable best-in-class results for our clients. We are focused on operating businesses where we have: deep industry expertise that enables us to serve the market with high effectiveness; a strong competitive position, currently or via a clear path in the foreseeable future; long-term, trusted client relationships that are based on recurring services and transactions; differentiated solutions that deliver value to our clients through integration and innovation; and strong management to execute strategies in a disciplined manner. Consistent with this focus, we continue to operate our business in accordance with the following strategic framework: 
             
    Portfolio Management  . We expect to acquire businesses when we identify: a compelling strategic need, such as a product, service or technology that helps meet client demand; an opportunity to change industry dynamics; a way to achieve business scale; or similar considerations. We expect to divest businesses that are not in line with our market, product or financial strategies. 
                
    Client Relationship Value  . We plan to increase the number and breadth of our client relationships by, among other actions: continuing to integrate our products and services; introducing new products and services that are aligned with market needs; combining products and services to deliver enhanced, integrated value propositions; and improving the quality of our client service and support. 
     
   4 

     Table of Contents  

Operational Effectiveness  . We believe we can improve the quality of our client delivery while reducing our costs by using the opportunities created by our size and scale. For example, we are using our consolidated buying power and optimizing our facilities to create cost savings. 
                
    Capital Discipline  . We intend to make capital allocation decisions that offer the best prospects for our long-term growth and profitability, which may include, among other matters, internal investment, repayment of debt, repurchases of our own shares or acquisitions. 
                
    Innovation  . We seek to be an innovation leader, utilizing our assets and capabilities to be at the forefront of our industry and enable our clients to deliver best-in-class results. 
     Servicing the Market 
  The markets for our account and transaction processing services have specific needs and requirements, with strong emphasis placed by clients on flexibility, quality, comprehensiveness and integration of product lines, service reliability, timely introduction of new products and features, and cost effectiveness. We believe that our financial strength and primary focus on the financial services industry enhances our ability to meet these needs and service our clients. In addition, we believe that our dedication to providing excellent client service and support no matter the size of the client and our commitment of substantial resources to training and technical support helps us to identify and fulfill the needs of our clients. 
  Product Development 
  To meet the changing technology needs of our clients, we continually develop, maintain and enhance our products and systems. Product development expenditures represented approximately   8%   of our total revenue in   2016   and   9%   in each of   2015   and   2014  . Our development and technology centers apply the expertise of multiple teams to design, develop and maintain specialized processing systems. Our account processing systems are designed to meet the preferences and diverse requirements of the international, national, regional or local market-specific financial service environments of our clients. In developing our products, we use current software development principles, such as service-oriented architecture, to create efficiencies, and we stress interaction with and responsiveness to the needs of our clients. 
  Intellectual Property 
  We regard our software, transaction processing services and related products as proprietary, and we utilize a combination of patent, copyright, trademark and trade secret laws, internal security practices, and employee and third party non-disclosure agreements to protect our intellectual property assets. Our patents cover innovations relating to numerous financial software products and services, and we continue, where appropriate, to seek and secure patents with respect to our ongoing innovations. We believe that we possess all proprietary rights necessary to conduct our business. 
  Competition 
  The market for technology products and services in the financial industry is highly competitive. Our principal competitors include other vendors of financial services technology, data processing affiliates of large companies, and processing centers owned and operated as user cooperatives. Outside the U.S., our primary competitors include global and local IT product and services companies, as well as payment service providers and processors. Furthermore, we expect competition to continue to increase as new companies enter our markets and existing competitors expand their product lines and services. Some of these competitors possess substantially greater financial, sales and marketing resources than we do and have substantial flexibility in competing with us, including through the use of integrated product offerings and through pricing. Competitive factors for our business include product quality, security, service reliability, product line comprehensiveness and integration, timely introduction of new products and features, and price. We believe that we compete favorably in each of these categories. Additional information about competition in our segments is provided below. 
  Payments 
  We compete with a number of competitors in our bill payment, digital channels, card services and biller businesses, including ACI Worldwide, Inc., Fidelity National Information Services, Inc. ( FIS ), First Data Corporation, Jack Henry and Associates Inc. ( Jack Henry ), MasterCard Incorporated, NCR Corporation, Q2 Holdings, Inc., Total System Services, Inc.,Vantiv, Inc., Visa Inc. and The Western Union Company. In addition to traditional payments competitors, large technology, media and other providers are increasingly seeking to provide or facilitate a wide range of point of sale and non-point of sale payments. These newer competitors include, but are not limited to, Alphabet Inc., Amazon.com, Inc., Apple Inc., Facebook, Inc., Intuit Inc., PayPal Holdings, Inc., Samsung Group, Starbucks Corporation and Wal-Mart Stores, Inc. Certain existing and potential financial institution and biller clients also have the ability to develop and use their own in-house systems instead of our  
  
   5 

     Table of Contents  

products and services. In addition, many companies that provide solutions to the financial services industry are consolidating, creating larger competitors with greater resources and broader product lines. 
  Financial 
  Our products and services in the Financial segment compete in several different market segments and geographies, including with large, diversified software and service companies and independent suppliers of software products. Certain existing and potential financial institution clients also have the ability to develop and use their own in-house systems. In addition, we compete with vendors that offer similar transaction processing products and services to financial institutions, including Computer Services, Inc., DH Corporation, FIS, Infosys Ltd., International Business Machines Corporation, Jack Henry, Oracle Corporation, SAP SE and Temenos Group AG. 
  Government Regulation 
  The regulations that apply to the delivery of financial services are complex and evolve continuously. Fiserv and its subsidiaries are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities and representatives of the Federal Financial Institutions Examination Council, which is a formal interagency body empowered to prescribe uniform principles, standards and report forms for the federal examination of financial institutions and to make recommendations to promote uniformity in the supervision of financial institutions. Also, state and federal regulations require our financial institution clients to include certain provisions in their contracts with service providers like us, such as those related to security and privacy, and to conduct ongoing monitoring and risk management for third party relationships. In addition, independent auditors annually review many of our operations to provide internal control evaluations for our clients and their auditors. 
  In conducting our direct-to-consumer businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment and Popmoney person-to-person payment services, we are directly subject to various federal and state laws, rules and regulations including those relating to the movement of money. In order to comply with our obligations under applicable laws, we are required, among other matters, to comply with licensing and reporting requirements, to implement operating policies and procedures necessary to comply with anti-money laundering laws, to comply with capital requirements, to protect the privacy and security of our clients  information, and to undergo periodic audits and examinations. 
  Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank Act ), there have been substantial reforms to the supervision and operation of the financial services industry, including numerous new regulations that have imposed compliance costs and, in some cases, limited revenue sources for us and our clients. Among other things, the Dodd-Frank Act established the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ), which is empowered to conduct rule-making and supervision related to, and enforcement of, federal consumer financial protection laws. The CFPB has issued guidance that applies to  supervised service providers,  which the CFPB has defined to include service providers, like us, to CFPB supervised banks and nonbanks. In addition, federal and state agencies have recently begun to propose cybersecurity regulations, such as the Proposed Cybersecurity Requirements for Financial Services Companies issued by the New York State Department of Financial Services in September 2016 and the Advance Notice of Proposed Rulemaking on Enhanced Cyber Risk Management Standards issued by The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency and the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation in October 2016. New regulations could, among other things, require us to make significant additional investments to comply with them, modify our products or services or the manner in which they are provided, or limit or change the amount or types of revenue we are able to generate. 
  Employees 
  We have approximately 23,000 employees globally, many of whom are specialists in our information management centers and related product and service businesses. This service support network includes employees with backgrounds in computer science and the financial industry, as well as employees with direct experience in payments, financial institutions and other financial services environments. Our employees provide expertise in: programming, software development, modification and maintenance; computer operations, network control and technical support; client services and training; business process outsourcing; item and mortgage processing; system conversions; sales and marketing; and account management. 
  The service nature of our business makes our employees an important corporate asset. Although the market for qualified personnel is competitive, we have not experienced significant difficulty with hiring or retaining our staff of top industry professionals. In assessing a potential acquisition candidate, we emphasize the quality and stability of the acquisition candidate s employees. 
  
   6 

     Table of Contents  

Available Information 
  Our website address is www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information provided on our website as a part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this Annual Report on Form 10-K. We make available free of charge (other than an investor s own internet access charges) through our website our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to these reports, as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish such material to, the Securities and Exchange Commission. 
   
  Item 1A.  Risk Factors 
  You should carefully consider each of the risks described below, together with all of the other information contained in this Annual Report on Form 10-K, before making an investment decision with respect to our securities. If any of the following risks develop into actual events, our business, financial condition or results of operations could be materially and adversely affected and you may lose all or part of your investment. 
  We operate in a competitive business environment and may not be able to compete effectively. 
  The markets for our services are highly competitive from new and existing competitors. Our competitors vary in size and in the scope and breadth of the services they offer. Many of our larger existing and potential clients have historically developed their key applications in-house. As a result, we often compete against our existing or potential clients  in-house capabilities. We also expect that the markets in which we compete will continue to attract new well-funded competitors and new technologies, including large technology, media and other companies not historically in the financial services industry, start-ups and international providers of similar products and services to ours. We cannot provide any assurance that we will be able to compete successfully against current or future competitors or that competitive pressures faced by us in the markets in which we operate will not materially and adversely affect our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  If we fail to adapt our products and services to changes in technology or in the marketplace, or if our ongoing efforts to upgrade our technology are not successful, we could lose clients or have trouble attracting new clients, and our ability to grow may be limited. 
  The markets for our products and services are characterized by constant technological changes, frequent introductions of new products and services, and evolving industry standards. Our ability to enhance our current products and services and to develop and introduce innovative products and services that address the increasingly sophisticated needs of our clients and their customers will significantly affect our future success. We may not be successful in developing, marketing or selling new products and services that meet these changing demands. In addition, we may experience difficulties that could delay or prevent the successful development, introduction or marketing of these services, or our new services and enhancements may not adequately meet the demands of the marketplace or achieve market acceptance. If we are unsuccessful in offering products or services that gain market acceptance, it would likely have a material adverse effect on our ability to retain existing clients, to attract new ones and to grow profitably. 
  The market for our electronic transaction services continues to evolve and may not continue to develop or grow rapidly enough to sustain profitability. 
  If the number of electronic transactions does not continue to grow, or if consumers or businesses do not continue to adopt our services, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. We believe future growth in the electronic transactions market will be driven by a combination of factors including speed, cost, ease-of-use, security and quality of products and services offered to consumers and businesses. In addition, we may face challenges meeting local political, regulatory, business and economic conditions as we grow internationally, particularly in emerging market economies, and we may find it difficult to manage and oversee operations far from our headquarters. In order to consistently increase and maintain our profitability, consumers and businesses must continue to adopt our services. The success of our electronic commerce businesses also relies in part on financial institutions, billers and other third parties to market our services to their customers. If any of these third parties abandons, curtails or insufficiently increases its marketing efforts, it could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  If we are unable to renew client contracts at favorable terms, we could lose clients and our results of operations and financial condition may be adversely affected. 
  Failure to achieve favorable renewals of client contracts could negatively impact our business. Our contracts with clients generally run for a period of three to five years. At the end of the contract term, clients have the opportunity to renegotiate their contracts with us or to consider whether to engage one or more of our competitors to provide products and services. If we are  
  
   7 

     Table of Contents  

not successful in achieving high renewal rates and favorable contract terms, our results of operations and financial condition may be materially and adversely affected. 
  Our business may be adversely impacted by U.S. and global market and economic conditions. 
  For the foreseeable future, we expect to continue to derive most of our revenue from products and services we provide to the financial services industry. Given this concentration, we are exposed to the global economic conditions in the financial services industry. A prolonged poor economic environment could result in significant decreases in demand by current and potential clients for our products and services and in the number and dollar amount of transactions we process, which could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Consolidations in the banking and financial services industry could adversely affect our revenue by eliminating existing or potential clients and making us more dependent on fewer clients. 
  Failures, mergers and consolidations of financial institutions reduce the number of our clients and potential clients, which could adversely affect our revenue. Further, if our clients fail or merge with or are acquired by other entities that are not our clients, or that use fewer of our services, they may discontinue or reduce their use of our services. It is also possible that the larger financial institutions that result from mergers or consolidations could have greater leverage in negotiating terms with us or could decide to perform in-house some or all of the services which we currently provide or could provide. Any of these developments could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Security breaches, computer malware or other  cyber attacks  could harm our business by disrupting our delivery of services and damaging our reputation. 
  Our operations depend on receiving, storing, processing and transmitting sensitive information pertaining to our business, our associates, our clients and their customers. Any unauthorized intrusion, malicious software infiltration, network disruption, denial of service or similar act by a malevolent party could disrupt the integrity, continuity, security and trust of our systems or data, or the systems or data of our clients or vendors. These events could create costly litigation, significant financial liability, increased regulatory scrutiny, financial sanctions and a loss of confidence in our ability to serve clients and cause current or potential clients to choose another service provider, all of which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In addition, as these threats continue to evolve, we may be required to invest significant additional resources to modify and enhance our information security and controls or to investigate and remediate any security vulnerabilities. Although we believe that we maintain a robust program of information security and controls and none of the threats that we have encountered to date have materially impacted us, we may not be able to prevent a material event in the future, and the impact of a material event could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Operational failures could harm our business and reputation. 
  An operational failure in our transaction processing businesses, including our business continuity and disaster recovery capabilities, could harm our business or cause us to lose clients. An operational failure could be caused by the failure of third party networks and systems upon which we rely to deliver our services and over which we have limited or no control. Interruptions of service could damage our relationship with clients and could cause us to incur substantial expenses, including those related to the payment of service credits or other liabilities. A prolonged interruption of our services or network could cause us to experience data loss or a reduction in revenue. In addition, a significant interruption of service could have a negative impact on our reputation and could cause our current and potential clients to choose another service provider. Any of these developments could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  We may experience software defects, development delays or installation difficulties, which would harm our business and reputation and expose us to potential liability. 
  Our services are based on sophisticated software and computing systems, and we may encounter delays when developing new applications and services. Further, the software underlying our services may contain undetected errors or defects when first introduced or when new versions are released. In addition, we may experience difficulties in installing or integrating our technology on systems used by our clients. Defects in our software, errors or delays in the processing of electronic transactions or other difficulties could result in interruption of business operations, delay in market acceptance, additional development and remediation costs, diversion of technical and other resources, loss of clients, negative publicity or exposure to liability claims. Although we attempt to limit our potential liability through disclaimers and limitation of liability provisions in our license and client agreements, we cannot be certain that these measures will successfully limit our liability. 
  
   8 

     Table of Contents  

A heightened regulatory environment in the financial services industry, including the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act and related regulations, may have an adverse impact on our clients and our business. 
  Since the enactment of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( Dodd-Frank Act ), there have been substantial regulations affecting the supervision and operation of the financial services industry within the United States, including the establishment of a new federal bureau called the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau ( CFPB ). The CFPB has issued guidance that applies to  supervised service providers,  which the CFPB has defined to include service providers, like us, to CFPB supervised banks and nonbanks. It is difficult to predict with certainty the extent to which the Dodd-Frank Act, the CFPB or the resulting regulations will impact our business or the businesses of our current and potential clients over the long term. In addition, federal and state agencies are pursuing additional cybersecurity regulations and are expected to continue to seek to impact client contract terms with service providers like us. If government agencies, including the CFPB, adopt additional rules and exercise supervisory authority over service providers like us, we could be subject to a greater degree of direct federal and state oversight than in the past, which could slow our ability to adapt to a rapidly changing industry, require us to make compliance investments and/or limit our fees or other revenue sources. To the extent these regulations negatively impact the business, operations or financial condition of our clients, our business and results of operations could be materially and adversely affected because, among other matters, our clients could have less capacity to purchase products and services from us, could decide to avoid or abandon certain lines of business, or could seek to pass on increased costs to us by negotiating price reductions. We could be required to invest a significant amount of time and resources to comply with additional regulations or oversight or to modify the manner in which we contract with or provide products and services to our clients; and such regulations could directly or indirectly limit how much we can charge for our services. We may not be able to update our existing products and services, or develop new ones, to satisfy our clients  needs. Any of these events, if realized, could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  If we fail to comply with applicable regulations our businesses could be harmed. 
  We are generally not directly subject to federal or state regulations specifically applicable to financial institutions such as banks, thrifts and credit unions. However, as a provider of services to these financial institutions, we are subject to contractual requirements imposed by the financial institutions with respect to a number of state and federal regulations, including privacy laws, and our operations are examined on a regular basis by various state and federal regulatory authorities. Also, regulators are signaling interest in enforcing regulations directly against service providers to financial institutions, and any such direct enforcement could result in increased operating costs for us and additional restrictions on our business processes. If we fail to comply with any applicable regulations, we could be exposed to litigation or regulatory proceedings, our client relationships and reputation could be harmed, and we could be inhibited in our ability to obtain new clients, which could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the future enactment of more restrictive laws or rules on the federal or state level, or, with respect to our international operations, in foreign jurisdictions on the national, provincial, state or other level, could have a material adverse impact on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Our failure to comply with a series of complex regulations in our payments businesses could subject us to liability. 
  Certain of our subsidiaries are licensed as money transmitters in those states where such licensure is required. In connection with such licensure, we are required to demonstrate and maintain certain levels of net worth and liquidity and to file periodic reports. In addition, our direct-to-consumer payments businesses, including our walk-in bill payment, online bill payment and Popmoney person-to-person payment services, are subject to federal regulation in the United States, including anti-money laundering regulations and certain restrictions on transactions to or from certain individuals or entities. The complexity of these regulations will continue to increase our cost of doing business. In addition, any violations of law may result in civil or criminal penalties against us and our officers, or the prohibition against us providing money transmitter services in particular jurisdictions. 
  If we fail to comply with the applicable requirements of the payment card networks, they could seek to fine us, suspend us or terminate our registrations which could adversely affect our business. 
  We are subject to card association and network rules governing Visa, MasterCard, American Express, Discover or other similar organizations, including the Payment Card Industry Data Security Standard enforced by the major card brands. The rules of the card networks are set by their boards which may be influenced by card issuers, some of which offer competing transaction processing services. If we fail to comply with these rules, we could be fined, our certifications could be suspended, or our certifications could be terminated. The suspension or termination of our certifications, or any changes to the card association and network rules, that we do not successfully address, could limit our ability to provide transaction processing services to  
  
   9 

     Table of Contents  

clients and result in a reduction of revenue or increased costs of operation, which, in either case, could have a material adverse effect on our business and results of operations. 
  We may be sued for infringing the intellectual property rights of others. 
  Third parties may claim that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We may expose ourselves to additional liability if we agree to indemnify our clients against third party infringement claims. If the owner of intellectual property establishes that we are, or a client which we are obligated to indemnify is, infringing its intellectual property rights, we may be forced to change our products or services, and such changes may be expensive or impractical, or we may need to seek royalty or license agreements from the owner of such rights. If we are unable to agree on acceptable terms, we may be required to discontinue the sale of key products or halt other aspects of our operations. We may also be liable for financial damages for a violation of intellectual property rights, and we may incur expenses in connection with indemnifying our clients against losses suffered by them. Any adverse result related to violation of third party intellectual property rights could materially and adversely harm our business, results of operations and financial condition. Even if intellectual property claims brought against us are without merit, they may result in costly and time consuming litigation and may require significant attention from our management and key personnel. 
  Misappropriation of our intellectual property and proprietary rights could impair our competitive position. 
  Our ability to compete depends upon proprietary systems and technology. We actively seek to protect our proprietary rights. Nevertheless, unauthorized parties may attempt to copy aspects of our services or to obtain and use information that we regard as proprietary. The steps we have taken may not prevent misappropriation of technology. Agreements entered into for that purpose may not be enforceable or provide us with an adequate remedy. Effective patent, trademark, service mark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available in every country in which our applications and services are made available. Misappropriation of our intellectual property or potential litigation concerning such matters could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  Acquisitions subject us to risks, including increased debt, assumption of unforeseen liabilities and difficulties in integrating operations. 
  A major contributor to our growth in revenue and earnings since our inception has been our ability to identify, acquire and integrate complementary businesses. We anticipate that we will continue to seek to acquire complementary businesses, products and services. We may not be able to identify suitable acquisition candidates or complete acquisitions in the future, which could adversely affect our future growth, or businesses that we acquire may not perform as well as expected or may be more difficult to integrate and manage than expected, which could adversely affect our business and results of operations. We may not be able to integrate all aspects of acquired businesses successfully or realize the potential benefits of bringing them together. In addition, the process of integrating these acquisitions may disrupt our business and divert our resources. 
  These risks may arise for a number of reasons: we may not be able to find suitable businesses to acquire at affordable valuations or on other acceptable terms; we face competition for acquisitions from other potential acquirers; we may need to borrow money or sell equity or debt securities to the public to finance future acquisitions and the terms of these financings may be adverse to us; changes in accounting, tax, securities or other regulations could increase the difficulty or cost for us to complete acquisitions; we may incur unforeseen obligations or liabilities in connection with acquisitions; we may need to devote unanticipated financial and management resources to an acquired business; we may not realize expected operating efficiencies or product integration benefits from an acquisition; we could enter markets where we have minimal prior experience; and we may experience decreases in earnings as a result of non-cash impairment charges. 
  We may be obligated to indemnify the purchasers of businesses pursuant to the terms of the relevant purchase and sale agreements. 
  We have in the past and may in the future sell businesses. In connection with sales of businesses, we may make representations and warranties about the businesses and their financial affairs and agree to retain certain liabilities associated with our operation of the businesses prior to their sale. Our obligation to indemnify the purchasers and agreement to retain liabilities could have a material adverse effect on our business, results of operations and financial condition. 
  The failure to attract and retain key personnel could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
  We depend on the experience, skill and contributions of our senior management and other key employees. If we fail to attract, motivate and retain highly qualified management, technical, compliance and sales personnel, our future success could be harmed. Our senior management provides strategic direction for our company, and if we lose members of our leadership team, our management resources may have to be diverted from other priorities to address this loss. Our products and services require  
  
   10 

     Table of Contents  

sophisticated knowledge of the financial services industry, applicable regulatory and industry requirements, computer systems, and software applications, and if we cannot hire or retain the necessary skilled personnel, we could suffer delays in new product development, experience difficulty complying with applicable requirements or otherwise fail to satisfy our clients  demands. 
  Our balance sheet includes significant amounts of goodwill and intangible assets. The impairment of a significant portion of these assets would negatively affect our results of operations. 
  Our balance sheet includes goodwill and intangible assets that represent   74%   of our total assets at   December 31, 2016  . These assets consist primarily of goodwill and identified intangible assets associated with our acquisitions. On at least an annual basis, we assess whether there have been impairments in the carrying value of goodwill. In addition, we review intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. If the carrying value of the asset is determined to be impaired, then it is written down to fair value by a charge to operating earnings. An impairment of a significant portion of goodwill or intangible assets could have a material negative effect on our results of operations. 
  Increased leverage may harm our financial condition and results of operations. 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , we had approximately   $4.6 billion   of long-term debt, including current maturities. We and our subsidiaries may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our indebtedness could: decrease our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, general corporate or other purposes; limit our flexibility to make acquisitions; increase our cash requirements to support the payment of interest; limit our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. Our ability to make payments of principal and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. In addition, if our outstanding senior notes are downgraded to below investment grade, we may incur additional interest expense. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements, we may be required, among other things: to seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; to refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; or to reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt and meet our other cash requirements. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available at all or on economically favorable terms. 
   
  Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments 
  None. 
   
  Item 2.  Properties 
  As of   December 31, 2016  , we operated data, development, item processing and support centers in approximately 110 cities. We owned six buildings, and the more than 120 remaining locations where we operated our businesses are subject to leases. We believe our facilities and equipment are well maintained and are in good operating condition. We believe that the computer equipment that we own and lease and our various facilities are adequate for our present and foreseeable business needs. We maintain our own, and contract with multiple service providers to provide, processing back-up in the event of a disaster. We also maintain copies of data and software used in our business in locations that are separate from our facilities. 
   
  Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 
  In the normal course of business, we or our subsidiaries are named as defendants in lawsuits in which claims are asserted against us. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on our consolidated financial statements. 
   
  Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures 
  Not applicable. 
  
   11 

Table of Contents  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
  The names of our executive officers as of   February 16, 2017  , together with their ages, positions and business experience are described below: 
                   Name 
    Age 
    Title 
      Jeffery W. Yabuki 
    56 
    President, Chief Executive Officer and Director 
      Mark A. Ernst 
    58 
    Chief Operating Officer 
      Kevin P. Gregoire 
    49 
    Group President, Financial Institutions Group 
      Robert W. Hau 
    51 
    Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 
      Lynn S. McCreary 
    57 
    Chief Legal Officer and Secretary 
      Devin B. McGranahan 
    47 
    Group President, Billing and Payments Group 
      Kevin J. Schultz 
    59 
    Group President, Digital Banking Group 
      Steven Tait 
    57 
    Chief Sales Officer and Group President, International Group 
      Byron C. Vielehr 
    53 
    Group President, Depository Institution Services Group 

Mr. Yabuki   has been a director and our President and Chief Executive Officer since 2005. Before joining Fiserv, Mr. Yabuki served as executive vice president and chief operating officer of H R Block, Inc., a financial services firm, from 2002 to 2005. From 2001 to 2002, he served as executive vice president of H R Block and from 1999 to 2001, he served as the president of H R Block International. From 1987 to 1999, Mr. Yabuki held various executive positions with the American Express Company, a financial services firm, including president and chief executive officer of American Express Tax and Business Services, Inc. 
  Mr. Ernst   has served as Chief Operating Officer since 2011. Prior to joining Fiserv, he served as deputy commissioner for operations support for the Internal Revenue Service from 2009 to 2010, where he was responsible for technology, operations, shared services, human resources and the chief financial office. From 2008 to 2009, he was chief executive officer of Bellevue Capital LLC, a private investment firm; from 2001 to 2007, he served as chairman, president and chief executive officer of H R Block, Inc., a financial services firm; and from 1998 to 2000, he served as its chief operating officer. His experience, which includes executive positions with the American Express Company, a financial services firm, spans more than 25 years in the financial services industry. 
  Mr. Gregoire   has served as Group President, Financial Institutions Group since 2014. Mr. Gregoire joined Fiserv in 2002 as part of its acquisition of EDS Consumer Network Services, which he joined in 1996. Mr. Gregoire has served in a number of leadership roles at Fiserv including as chief operating officer and then president of our Card Services business from 2010 to 2014. His background includes a number of diverse leadership roles in product development and management, sales and account management, settlement operations, risk management, and security and compliance. 
  Mr. Hau   has served as Chief Financial Officer since March 2016. Before joining Fiserv, Mr. Hau served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at TE Connectivity Ltd., a global technology company that designs and manufactures highly engineered connectivity and sensor products, from 2012 to 2016. From 2009 to 2012, he served as executive vice president and chief financial officer at Lennox International Inc., a provider of products and services in the heating, air conditioning, and refrigeration markets; and from 2006 to 2009, he served as vice president and chief financial officer for the aerospace business group of Honeywell International, Inc., a technology and manufacturing company.  Mr. Hau joined Honeywell (initially AlliedSignal) in 1987 and served in a variety of senior financial leadership positions, including vice president and chief financial officer for the company s aerospace electronic systems unit and for its specialty materials business group. 
  Ms. McCreary   has served as Chief Legal Officer and Secretary since 2013. Ms. McCreary joined Fiserv in 2010 as senior vice president and deputy general counsel. Prior to joining Fiserv, Ms. McCreary was an attorney with the law firm of Bryan Cave LLP from 1996 to 2010, including serving as managing partner of its San Francisco, California office from its opening in 2008 to 2010. Ms. McCreary began her career in financial services with positions at Citicorp Person-to-Person and Metropolitan Life Insurance Company s mortgage subsidiary, Metmor Financial, Inc. 
  Mr. McGranahan   has served as Group President, Billing and Payments Group since November 2016. Before joining Fiserv, Mr. McGranahan served as a senior partner at McKinsey   Company, a global management consulting firm, from 2006 to 2016. Most recently, he also held a variety of senior management roles at the firm, including leader of the global insurance practice from 2013 to 2016 and co-chair of the global senior partner election committee from 2013 to 2015. In addition, Mr. McGranahan served as co-leader of the North America financial services practice from 2009 to 2016. He joined McKinsey in  
  
   12 

     Table of Contents  

1992 and served in a variety of other leadership positions prior to 2009, including leader of the North American property and casualty practice and managing partner of the Pittsburgh office. 
  Mr. Schultz   has served as Group President, Digital Banking Group since 2014. Prior to joining Fiserv, Mr. Schultz served as president of global financial services at First Data Corporation, a global payment processing company, from 2009 to 2011, and as global head of processing services at Visa Inc. from 2007 to 2009. He has more than 30 years of experience in the payments and financial services industry, including a variety of other senior leadership roles at Visa Inc. and Global Payments Inc., an electronic transaction processing service provider. 
  Mr. Tait   assumed the role of Chief Sales Officer on January 1, 2017 and continues to serve as Group President, International Group, a position he has held since 2012. He joined Fiserv in 2009 as an executive vice president and served as Group President, Depository Institution Services Group from 2010 to 2011. Prior to joining Fiserv, Mr. Tait served as president of RSM McGladrey, a subsidiary of H R Block Inc., from 2003 to 2009, and executive vice president, sales and client operations of Gartner, Inc. from 2001 to 2003. 
  Mr. Vielehr   has served as Group President, Depository Institution Services Group since 2013. Prior to joining Fiserv, Mr. Vielehr served in a succession of senior executive positions with The Dun   Bradstreet Corporation, a provider of commercial information and business insight solutions, from 2005 to 2013, most recently as president of international and global operations, and as president and chief operating officer of Northstar Systems International, Inc., a developer of wealth management software and now part of SEI Investments Company, from 2004 to 2005. 
  
   13 

Table of Contents  

PART II 
   
           Item 5. 
    Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
     Market Price Information 
  Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  FISV.  Set forth below is the high and low sales price of our common stock during the periods presented. 

At   December 31, 2016  , our common stock was held by   2,016   shareholders of record and by a significantly greater number of shareholders who hold shares in nominee or street name accounts with brokers. The closing price of our common stock on   February 16, 2017   was   $111.25   per share. We have never paid dividends on our common stock, and we do not anticipate paying dividends in the foreseeable future. For additional information regarding our expected use of capital, refer to the discussion in this report under the heading  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Liquidity and Capital Resources.  
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  The table below sets forth information with respect to purchases made by or on behalf of us or any  affiliated purchaser  (as defined in Rule 10b-18(a)(3) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934) of shares of our common stock during the three months ended December 31,   2016  : 

_____ 
   
   14 

     Table of Contents  

Stock Performance Graph 
  The stock performance graph and related information presented below is not deemed to be  soliciting material  or to be  filed  with the Securities and Exchange Commission or subject to Regulation 14A or 14C under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 or to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and will not be deemed to be incorporated by reference into any filing under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, except to the extent we specifically incorporate it by reference into such a filing. 
  The following graph compares the cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock for the five years ended December 31,   2016   with the S P 500 Index and the NASDAQ US Benchmark Financial Administration Index. The graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31,   2011   in our common stock and each index and that all dividends were reinvested. No cash dividends have been declared on our common stock. The comparisons in the graph are required by the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not intended to forecast or be indicative of possible future performance of our common stock. 

15 

Table of Contents  

Item 6.    Selected Financial Data 
  The following data, which has been affected by acquisitions and dispositions including certain transactional gains recorded by our unconsolidated affiliate, should be read in conjunction with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes included elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. All per share amounts are presented on a split-adjusted basis to retroactively reflect the two-for-one stock split that was completed in the fourth quarter of 2013. Total assets and long-term debt have been adjusted on a retrospective basis for the adoption of Accounting Standards Update ("ASU") No. 2015-17,   Balance Sheet Classification of Deferred Taxes  , and ASU No. 2015-03,   Simplifying the Presentation of Debt Issuance Costs   effective December 31, 2015. Accordingly, current deferred tax assets have been reclassified to noncurrent assets and liabilities, and certain debt issuance costs previously included within other long-term assets have been reclassified as a reduction in long-term debt.  

Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations 
  Management s discussion and analysis of financial condition and results of operations is provided as a supplement to our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes to help provide an understanding of our financial condition, the changes in our financial condition and our results of operations. Our discussion is organized as follows:    
             
    Overview  . This section contains background information on our company and the services and products that we provide, our enterprise priorities and the trends affecting our industry in order to provide context for management s discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations. 
                
    Critical accounting policies and estimates  . This section contains a discussion of the accounting policies that we believe are important to our financial condition and results of operations and that require judgment and estimates on the part of management in their application. In addition, all of our significant accounting policies, including critical accounting policies, are summarized in Note 1 to the accompanying consolidated financial statements. 
                
    Results of operations  . This section contains an analysis of our results of operations presented in the accompanying consolidated statements of income by comparing the results for the year ended   December 31, 2016   to the results for the year ended   December 31, 2015   and by comparing the results for the year ended   December 31, 2015   to the results for the year ended   December 31, 2014  . 
                
    Liquidity and capital resources  . This section provides an analysis of our cash flows and a discussion of our outstanding debt and commitments at   December 31, 2016  . 
     
   16 

     Table of Contents  

Overview                     
  Company Background 
  We are a leading global provider of financial services technology. We provide account processing systems, electronic payments processing products and services, internet and mobile banking systems, and related services. We serve over   12,000   clients worldwide, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, retailers, merchants, mutual savings banks, and building societies. The majority of our revenue is generated from recurring account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of   three to five   years and high renewal rates. Most of the services we provide are necessary for our clients to operate their businesses and are, therefore, non-discretionary in nature. 
  Our operations are principally located in the United States and are comprised of the Payments and Industry Products ( Payments ) segment and the Financial Institution Services ( Financial ) segment. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, and other electronic payments software and services. Our businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. The Financial segment provides banks, thrifts, credit unions, and leasing and finance companies with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Corporate and Other primarily consists of unallocated corporate expenses including share-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, intercompany eliminations and other costs that are not considered when management evaluates segment performance. 
  During the first quarter of 2016, we acquired two businesses for an aggregate purchase price of $265 million. We acquired the Convenience Pay Services business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, which enables providers to accept electronic payments from their consumers through multiple channels, thereby expanding our biller solution offerings. We also completed our purchase of the Community Financial Services business of ACI Worldwide, Inc., further enhancing our suite of digital banking and payments solutions. 
  During 2016, StoneRiver Group, L.P. ( StoneRiver ), a joint venture in which we own a 49% interest and account for under the equity method, recognized a net gain on the sale of a business interest, and in 2015 and 2014, recognized net gains on the sales of subsidiary businesses. Our pre-tax share of the net gains and related expenses on these transactions was   $146 million   in   2016  ,   $29 million   in   2015   and   $87 million   in   2014  , with related tax expenses of   $54 million  ,   $13 million   and   $36 million  , respectively. In addition, we received cash dividends of   $151 million  ,   $36 million   and   $110 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively, from StoneRiver, which were funded from the sale transactions. 
  Enterprise Priorities 
  We continue to implement a series of strategic initiatives to help accomplish our mission of providing integrated technology and services solutions that enable best-in-class results for our clients. These strategic initiatives include active portfolio management of our businesses, enhancing the overall value of our existing client relationships, improving operational effectiveness, being disciplined in our allocation of capital, and differentiating our products and services through innovation. Our key enterprise priorities for 2017 are: (i) to continue to build high-quality revenue while meeting our earnings goals; (ii) to enhance client relationships with an emphasis on digital and payment solutions; and (iii) to deliver innovation and integration which enables differentiated value for our clients. 
  Industry Trends 
  The market for products and services offered by financial institutions continues to evolve rapidly. The financial industry regularly introduces and implements new payment, deposit, lending, investment and risk management products, and the distinctions among the products and services traditionally offered by different types of financial institutions continue to narrow as they seek to serve the same customers. At the same time, regulatory conditions and cybersecurity scrutiny have continued to create a challenging operating environment for financial institutions. For example, legislation such as the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act has generated, and may continue to generate, new regulations impacting the financial industry. These conditions, along with mild economic improvement, have created heightened interest in solutions that help financial institutions win and retain customers, generate incremental revenue, comply with regulations and enhance operating efficiency. Examples of these solutions include our electronic payments solutions and channels such as internet, mobile and tablet banking, sometimes referred to as  digital channels.  
  This increased focus on digital channels by both financial institutions and their customers, as well as the growing volume and types of payment transactions in the marketplace, have increased the data and transaction processing needs of financial  
  
   17 

     Table of Contents  

institutions. We expect that financial institutions will continue to invest significant capital and human resources to process transactions, manage information, maintain regulatory compliance and offer innovative new services to their customers in this rapidly evolving and competitive environment. We anticipate that we will benefit over the long term from the trend of financial institutions moving from in-house technology to outsourced solutions as they seek to remain current on technology changes amidst an evolving marketplace. We believe that economies of scale in developing and maintaining the infrastructure, technology, products, services and networks necessary to be competitive in such an environment are essential to justify these investments, and we anticipate that demand for products that facilitate customer interaction with financial institutions, including electronic transactions through digital channels, will continue to increase, which we expect to create revenue opportunities for us. Based on these market conditions, we believe that our sizable and diverse client base, combined with our position as a leading provider of non-discretionary, recurring revenue-based products and services, gives us a solid foundation for growth. Furthermore, we believe that the integration of our products and services creates a compelling value proposition for our clients. 
  In addition to the trends described above, the financial institutions marketplace has experienced change in composition as well. During the past 25 years, the number of financial institutions in the United States has declined at a relatively steady rate of approximately 3% per year, primarily as a result of voluntary mergers and acquisitions. Rather than reducing the overall market, these consolidations have transferred accounts among financial institutions. An acquisition benefits us when a newly combined institution is processed on our system, or elects to move to one of our systems, and negatively impacts us when a competing system is selected. Financial institution acquisitions also impact our financial results due to early contract termination fees in our multi-year client contracts, which are primarily generated when an existing client with a multi-year contract is acquired by another financial institution. These fees can vary from period to period based on the number and size of clients that are acquired and how early in the contract term the contract is terminated. Our revenue is diversified, and our focus on long-term client relationships and recurring, transaction-oriented products and services has reduced the impact that consolidation in the financial services industry has had on us. We have clients that span the entire range of financial institutions in terms of asset size and business model, and our 50 largest financial institution clients represent less than 25% of our annual revenue. In addition, we believe that our products and services can assist financial institutions with the regulatory and market challenges that they currently face by providing, among other things, new sources of revenue and opportunities to reduce their costs. 
  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates 
  Our consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes have been prepared in accordance with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States, which require management to make estimates, judgments and assumptions that affect the reported amount of assets, liabilities, revenue and expenses. We continually evaluate the accounting policies and estimates that we use to prepare our consolidated financial statements and base our estimates on historical experience and assumptions that we believe are reasonable in light of current circumstances. Actual amounts and results could differ materially from these estimates. 
  Acquisitions 
  From time to time, we make strategic acquisitions that may have a material impact on our consolidated results of operations or financial position. We allocate the purchase price of acquired businesses to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed in the transaction at their estimated fair values. The estimates used to determine the fair value of long-lived assets, such as intangible assets, can be complex and require significant judgments. We use information available to us to make fair value determinations and engage independent valuation specialists, when necessary, to assist in the fair value determination of significant acquired long-lived assets. While we use our best estimates and assumptions as a part of the purchase price allocation process, our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. As a result, during the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we record adjustments to the assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. Upon the conclusion of the measurement period or final determination of the values of assets acquired or liabilities assumed, whichever comes first, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of income. We are also required to estimate the useful lives of intangible assets to determine the amount of acquisition-related intangible asset amortization expense to record in future periods. We periodically review the estimated useful lives assigned to our intangible assets to determine whether such estimated useful lives continue to be appropriate. 
  Goodwill and Acquired Intangible Assets 
  We review the carrying value of goodwill for impairment annually, or more frequently if events or circumstances indicate the carrying value may not be recoverable. Goodwill is tested for impairment at a reporting unit level, determined to be at an operating segment level or one level below. When reviewing goodwill for impairment, we consider the amount of excess fair value over the carrying value of each reporting unit, the period of time since a reporting unit s last quantitative test, the extent  
  
   18 

     Table of Contents  

to which a reorganization or disposition changes the composition of one or more of our reporting units, and other factors to determine whether or not to first perform a qualitative test. When performing a qualitative test, we assess numerous factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of our reporting units are less than their respective carrying values. Examples of qualitative factors that we assess include our share price, our financial performance, market and competitive factors in our industry, and other events specific to our reporting units. If we conclude that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, we perform a two-step quantitative impairment test. 
  The first step in the quantitative test is to compare the fair value of the reporting unit to its carrying value. We determine the fair value of a reporting unit based primarily on the present value of estimated future cash flows. If the fair value of the reporting unit exceeds the carrying value of the reporting unit s net assets, goodwill of that reporting unit is not impaired and further testing is not required. If the carrying value of the reporting unit s net assets exceeds the fair value of the reporting unit, then we perform the second step of the quantitative test to determine the implied fair value of the reporting unit s goodwill and any impairment charge. Determining the fair value of a reporting unit involves judgment and the use of significant estimates and assumptions, which include assumptions regarding the revenue growth rates and operating margins used to calculate estimated future cash flows, risk-adjusted discount rates and future economic and market conditions. 
  Our most recent impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of   2016   determined that our goodwill was not impaired. The estimated fair values of the respective reporting units substantially exceeded the carrying values, except for a single reporting unit that exceeded the carrying value to a lesser magnitude given the short passage of time between the recent acquisition date and when we performed our most recent annual impairment assessment. 
  We review acquired intangible assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. Recoverability is assessed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. Measurement of any impairment loss is based on estimated fair value. Given the significance of our goodwill and intangible asset balances, an adverse change in fair value could result in an impairment charge, which could be material to our consolidated financial statements. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  The majority of our revenue is generated from monthly account- and transaction-based fees. Revenue is recognized as services are provided and is primarily recognized under service agreements that are long-term in nature, generally   three to five   years, and that do not require management to make significant judgments or assumptions. At times, however, judgment is exercised in evaluating revenue recognition, such as when a contract arrangement includes multiple product and service deliverables. Due to the quantity, size and nature of our multiple element arrangements, the judgments we make in this regard are not likely to have a material impact on revenue recognition for any individual element. Additionally, given the nature of our business and the rules governing revenue recognition, our revenue recognition practices generally do not involve significant estimates that materially affect our results of operations. Additional information about our revenue recognition policies is included in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements. 
  Results of Operations 
  Components of Revenue and Expenses 
  The following summary describes the components of revenue and expenses as presented in our consolidated statements of income. 
  Processing and Services 
  Processing and services revenue, which in   2016   represented   84%   of our total revenue, is primarily generated from account- and transaction-based fees under contracts that generally have terms of   three to five   years. Revenue is recognized when the related transactions are processed and services have been performed. Processing and services revenue is most reflective of our business performance as a significant amount of our total operating profit is generated by these services. Cost of processing and services includes costs directly associated with providing services to clients and includes the following: personnel; equipment and data communication; infrastructure costs, including costs to maintain software applications; client support; depreciation and amortization; and other operating expenses. 
  Product 
  Product revenue, which in   2016   represented   16%   of our total revenue, is primarily derived from integrated print and card production sales, as well as software license sales which represented less than   4%   of our total revenue. Cost of product includes costs directly associated with the products sold and includes the following: costs of materials and software development; personnel; infrastructure costs; depreciation and amortization; and other costs directly associated with product revenue. 
  
   19 

     Table of Contents  

Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily consist of: salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, administrative employees and management; advertising and promotional costs; depreciation and amortization; and other selling and administrative expenses. 
  Financial Results 
  The following table presents certain amounts included in our consolidated statements of income, the relative percentage that those amounts represent to revenue and the change in those amounts from year to year. This information should be read together with the consolidated financial statements and accompanying notes. 

(1) 
    Percentage of revenue is calculated as the relevant revenue, expense, income or loss amount divided by total revenue, except for cost of processing and services and cost of product amounts which are divided by the related component of revenue. 
     
   20 

     Table of Contents  

(1) 
    Represents the basis point growth or decline in operating margin. 
     Total Revenue 
  Total revenue   increased     $251 million  , or   5%  , in   2016   and   increased     $188 million  , or   4%  , in   2015   compared to the prior years. The increase in total revenue during   2016   was due to   8%   revenue growth in our Payments segment and   1%   revenue growth in our Financial segment as compared to   2015  . The increase in total revenue during   2015   was attributable to   4%   revenue growth in our Payments segment and   3%   revenue growth in our Financial segment as compared to   2014  .  
  Revenue in our Payments segment   increased     $228 million  , or   8%  , in   2016   and   increased     $115 million  , or   4%  , in   2015   compared to the prior years. Payments segment revenue growth during   2016   and   2015   was driven by our recurring revenue businesses as processing and services revenue   increased     $175 million  , or   8%  , and   increased     $129 million  , or   6%  , respectively, over the prior years. The growth in both years was primarily due to new client additions and increased transaction volumes from existing clients in our card services, electronic payments and digital channels businesses, as well as our biller solutions business in 2015. In 2016, Payments segment revenue growth was positively impacted by revenue from acquired businesses totaling $86 million and an increase in product revenue of   $53 million  , or   8%  , compared to 2015, primarily due to increased volumes in our output solutions business, including a higher level of card manufacturing and personalization. The revenue growth in 2015 was partially offset by lower software license revenue as compared to 2014. 
  Revenue in our Financial segment   increased     $34 million  , or   1%  , in   2016   and   increased     $76 million  , or   3%   in   2015   compared to the prior years. In both 2016 and 2015, Financial segment revenue growth was favorably impacted by increased processing and services revenue in our account processing and lending businesses, including higher contract termination fee revenue in 2015, as compared to the prior years. This growth was partially offset by lower revenue in our international business in 2016 and by negative foreign currency fluctuations of approximately 70 basis points in 2015. 
  
   21 

     Table of Contents  

Total Expenses 
  Total expenses   increased     $117 million  , or   3%  , in   2016   compared to   2015   and   increased     $87 million  , or   2%  , in   2015   compared to   2014  . Total expenses as a percentage of total revenue was   73.8%  ,   75.1%   and   76.1%   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue   decreased   to   47.8%   in   2016   compared to   49.4%   in   2015   and   51.3%   in   2014  . Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue was favorably impacted in both 2016 and 2015 by increased operating leverage in our recurring revenue businesses, as well as by operating efficiency initiatives across the company that have benefited our overall cost structure. Cost of processing and services as a percentage of processing and services revenue in 2016 was also favorably impacted by lower amortization related to certain fully amortized acquisition-related intangible assets. 
  Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue was   84.9%   in   2016   compared to   86.7%   in   2015   and   84.7%   in   2014  . Cost of product as a percentage of product revenue was favorably impacted in 2016 by an increase in higher-margin software license revenue and negatively impacted in 2015 by increased expenses in our output solutions business associated with additional investments to expand our card manufacturing and personalization capacity.  
  Selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue was   20.0%  ,   19.7%   and   19.2%   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. The increase in selling, general and administrative expenses as a percentage of total revenue was primarily due to acquisition and related integration costs in 2016 as compared to 2015 and increased share-based compensation and incremental costs associated with data center and real estate consolidation activities in 2015 as compared to 2014. 
  Operating Income and Operating Margin 
  Total operating income   increased     $134 million  , or   10%  , in   2016   and   increased     $101 million  , or   8%  , in   2015   compared to the prior years. Total operating margin   increased   to   26.2%   in   2016   from   24.9%   in   2015   and   23.9%   in   2014  . Operating income and operating margin improvements in 2016 and 2015 were driven by revenue growth and operational effectiveness initiatives. 
  Operating income in our Payments segment   increased     $103 million  , or   12%  , and   increased     $72 million  , or   9%  , in   2016   and   2015  , respectively, compared to the prior years. Operating margins were   30.5%  ,   29.3%   and   28.0%   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively, improving   120   basis points in   2016   and   130   basis points in   2015  . The increases in operating income and operating margin in 2016 and 2015 were primarily due to revenue growth and scale efficiencies in a number of our businesses, along with increased volumes and product mix in our output solutions business in 2016. Payments segment operating margin improvement was partially offset in 2016 by the dilutive margin impact from acquisitions and in 2015 by increased expenses associated with additional investments in our biller and output solutions businesses, along with a decrease in higher-margin software license revenue compared to the prior year. 
  Operating income in our Financial segment was generally consistent in   2016   and   increased     $53 million  , or   7%  , in   2015   compared to the prior years. Operating margins were   33.2%  ,   33.8%   and   32.6%   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively, decreasing   60   basis points in   2016   and improving   120   basis points in   2015  . Operating income and operating margin in 2016 were negatively impacted by product mix, lower international revenue and increased expenses associated with incremental investments in innovation-based solutions. Operating income and operating margin were positively impacted in 2015 by revenue growth, including higher contract termination fee revenue, along with operational effectiveness initiatives and scale efficiencies primarily in our account processing businesses. 
  The operating loss in Corporate and Other   decreased     $34 million   in   2016   and   increased     $24 million   in   2015   compared to the prior years. The operating loss improvement in 2016 was primarily due to lower amortization related to certain fully amortized acquisition-related intangible assets, partially offset by acquisition and related integration costs, including a   $10 million   non-cash impairment charge associated with the decision to replace existing software with an acquired solution. The operating loss increase in 2015 was attributable to increased costs incurred in conjunction with the achievement of our operational effectiveness objectives, including incremental costs related to data center and real estate consolidation activities, as compared to the prior year. 
  Interest Expense 
  Interest expense   decreased     $7 million   in   2016   and   increased     $6 million   in   2015   compared to the prior years. The higher interest expense in 2015 was primarily due to the reclassification of $7 million to interest expense for unamortized losses on settled cash flow hedges related to the early extinguishment of debt. 
  Interest and Investment (Loss) Income  
  The net interest and investment loss in 2016 was attributable to a non-cash write-off of a $7 million cost-method investment. 
  
   22 

     Table of Contents  

Loss on Early Debt Extinguishment 
  In May 2015, we redeemed our $600 million aggregate principal amount of 3.125% senior notes due in 2016 and $500 million aggregate principal amount of 6.8% senior notes due in 2017, which resulted in a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of $85 million related to make-whole payments and other costs associated with redemption. 
  Income Tax Provision 
  Income tax provision as a percentage of income from continuing operations before income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate was   38.6%   in   2016  ,   35.7%   in   2015   and   36.6%   in   2014  . The higher rate in 2016 and lower rate in 2015 compared to the prior years were primarily due to the level of income tax expense associated with our share of the net gains on the sales by our unconsolidated affiliate, StoneRiver, of a business interest in 2016 and subsidiary businesses in 2015. 
  Income from Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliate 
  Our share of the income of StoneRiver was   $147 million  ,   $32 million   and   $91 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. During 2016, StoneRiver recognized a net gain on the sale of a business interest, and in 2015 and 2014, recognized net gains on the sales of subsidiary businesses. Our pre-tax share of the net gains and related expenses on these transactions was   $146 million   in   2016  ,   $29 million   in   2015   and   $87 million   in   2014  . 
  Net Income Per Share - Diluted from Continuing Operations 
  Net income per share-diluted from continuing operations was   $4.15   in   2016   and   $2.99   in both   2015   and   2014  . Net income per share-diluted from continuing operations was favorably impacted from our share of net investments gains, primarily from StoneRiver capital transactions, of   $0.39  ,   $0.07   and $0.20 per share in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively, and was negatively impacted in 2016 by merger and integration costs of   $0.17   per share and in 2015 by debt extinguishment and refinancing costs of   $0.25   per share. The amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets also reduced net income per share-diluted from continuing operations by   $0.46  ,   $0.53   and $0.52 per share in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  Liquidity and Capital Resources 
  General 
  Our primary liquidity needs are: (i) to fund normal operating expenses; (ii) to meet the interest and principal requirements of our outstanding indebtedness; and (iii) to fund capital expenditures and operating lease payments. We believe these needs will be satisfied using cash flow generated by our operations, along with our cash and cash equivalents of   $300 million   and available borrowings under our revolving credit facility of   $1.4 billion   at December 31,   2016  . The following table summarizes our operating cash flow and capital expenditure amounts for the years ended December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 

Our net cash provided by operating activities, or operating cash flow, was   $1.43 billion   in   2016  ,   an increase   of   6%   compared with   $1.35 billion   in   2015  . This   increase   was primarily due to improved operating results and an increase in cash dividends  
  
   23 

     Table of Contents  

received from our StoneRiver joint venture, partially offset by lower cash inflow from net working capital changes primarily related to timing of receivable collections. 
  Our current policy is to use our operating cash flow primarily to fund capital expenditures, share repurchases and acquisitions and to repay debt rather than to pay dividends. Our capital expenditures were approximately   5%   and   7%   of our total revenue in   2016   and   2015  , respectively. Capital expenditures in 2015 include $70 million related to our Atlanta facility consolidation, consisting primarily of leasehold improvements and furniture and equipment, of which $25 million is offset by landlord reimbursements included in net changes in working capital and other. 
  In   2016   and   2015  , we received cash dividends of   $151 million   and   $36 million  , respectively, from our StoneRiver joint venture. These dividends, in their entirety, represented returns on our investment and are reported in cash flows from operating activities. In addition, we acquired the Convenience Pay Services business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company and the Community Financial Services business of ACI Worldwide, Inc. for an aggregate purchase price of $265 million during 2016. We funded these acquisitions by utilizing a combination of available cash and existing availability under our revolving credit facility. 
  Share Repurchases 
  We purchased   $1.20 billion   and $1.47 billion of our common stock in   2016   and   2015  , respectively.   On each of November 18, 2015 and November 16, 2016, our board of directors authorized the purchase of up to 15.0 million shares of our common stock.   As of December 31,   2016  , we had approximately   20.5 million   shares remaining under these authorizations. Shares repurchased are generally held for issuance in connection with our equity plans. 
  Indebtedness 

At December 31,   2016  , our long-term debt consisted primarily of   $3.3 billion   of senior notes,   $647 million   of revolving credit facility borrowings and   $629 million   of term loan borrowings. We were in compliance with all financial debt covenants during   2016  .  
  Revolving Credit Facility 
  We maintain a $2.0 billion revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks that matures in April 2020. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate on the revolving credit facility borrowings was   1.81%   at December 31,   2016  . There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements. The revolving credit facility contains various restrictions and covenants that require us, among other things, to: (i) limit our consolidated indebtedness as of the end of each fiscal quarter to no more than three and one-half times consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments during the period of four fiscal quarters then ended, and (ii) maintain consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments of at least three times consolidated interest expense as of the end of each fiscal quarter for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended. 
  Term Loan 
  We maintain a term loan with a syndicate of banks that matures in October 2018 and bears interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus a specified margin based on our long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate on the term loan borrowings was   2.02%   at December 31,   2016  . A scheduled principal payment of   $90 million   is  
  
   24 

     Table of Contents  

due on December 31, 2017, with the outstanding principal balance of   $540 million   due at maturity. The term loan facility contains various restrictions and covenants substantially similar to those contained in the revolving credit facility described above.  
  Senior Notes 
  In May 2015, we completed an offering of   $1.75 billion   of senior notes comprised of   $850 million   aggregate principal amount of   2.7%   senior notes due in June 2020 and   $900 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.85%   senior notes due in June 2025. The notes pay interest at the stated rates semi-annually on June 1 and December 1, which commenced on December 1, 2015. Our   4.625%   senior notes due in October 2020 and   3.5%   senior notes due in October 2022 pay interest at the stated rates on April 1 and October 1 of each year. Our   4.75%   senior notes due in June 2021 pay interest at the stated rate on June 15 and December 15 of each year. The interest rates applicable to the senior notes are subject to an increase of up to two percent in the event that our credit rating is downgraded below investment grade. The indentures governing the senior notes contain covenants that, among other matters, limit (i) our ability to consolidate or merge into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of our properties and assets to, another person; (ii) our and certain of our subsidiaries  ability to create or assume liens, and (iii) our and certain of our subsidiaries  ability to engage in sale and leaseback transactions. In October 2015, we used our available borrowings under the revolving credit facility to repay the   $300 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   senior notes. 
  In May 2015, we used the net proceeds from the offering described above to redeem our   $600 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   senior notes due in June 2016 and   $500 million   aggregate principal amount of   6.8%   senior notes due in November 2017. We recorded a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of   $85 million   related to make-whole payments and other costs associated with this redemption. In addition, we paid scheduled December 2015 and December 2016 principal payments on the term loan totaling   $180 million   and repaid, at that time, outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. The remaining net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes. 
  Other 
  Access to capital markets impacts our cost of capital, our ability to refinance maturing debt and our ability to fund future acquisitions. Our ability to access capital on favorable terms depends on a number of factors, including general market conditions, interest rates, credit ratings on our debt securities, perception of our potential future earnings and the market price of our common stock. As of December 31,   2016  , we had a corporate credit rating of Baa2 with a stable outlook from Moody s Investors Service, Inc. ( Moody s ) and BBB with a stable outlook from Standard   Poor s Ratings Services ( S P ) on our senior unsecured debt securities. 
  The interest rates payable on our senior notes, revolving credit facility and term loan are subject to adjustment from time to time if Moody s or S P changes the debt rating applicable to the notes. If the ratings from Moody s or S P decrease below investment grade, the per annum interest rates are subject to increase by up to two percent. In no event will the total increase in the per annum interest rates exceed two percent above the original interest rates, nor will the per annum interest rate be reduced below the original interest rate applicable to the senior notes. 
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements and Contractual Obligations 
  We do not participate in, nor have we created, any off-balance sheet variable interest entities or other off-balance sheet financing. The following table details our contractual obligations at December 31,   2016  : 

(1) 
    Interest, operating lease and purchase obligations are reported on a pre-tax basis. 
              (2) 
    The calculations assume that only mandatory debt repayments are made, no additional refinancing or lending occurs, and the variable rates on the revolving credit facility and term loan are priced at the rate in effect as of December 31,   2016  . 
     
   25 

Table of Contents  

Item 7A.  Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk 
  Market risk refers to the risk that a change in the level of one or more market prices, interest rates, currency exchange rates, indices, correlations or other market factors, such as liquidity, will result in losses for a certain financial instrument or group of financial instruments. We are exposed primarily to interest rate risk and market price risk on outstanding debt, investments of subscriber funds and foreign currency. Our senior management actively monitors these risks. 
  We manage our debt structure and interest rate risk through the use of fixed- and floating-rate debt. Based on our outstanding debt with variable interest rates at December 31,   2016  , a 1% increase in our borrowing rate would increase annual interest expense in   2017   by approximately   $13 million  . 
  In connection with processing electronic payments transactions, the funds we receive from subscribers are invested into short-term, highly liquid investments from the time we collect the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. Subscriber funds are not included in our consolidated balance sheets and can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity. During   2016  , the subscriber funds daily average balance approximated   $1.2 billion  . A 1% increase or decrease in applicable interest rates would not have a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations. 
  We conduct business in the United States and in foreign countries and are exposed to foreign currency risk from changes in the value of underlying assets and liabilities of our non-U.S. dollar denominated foreign investments and foreign currency transactions. We have entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts with total notional values of approximately   $86 million   as of December 31,   2016   to hedge foreign currency exposure to the Indian Rupee. In   2016  , approximately   5%   of our total revenue was from clients in foreign countries. Risk can be estimated by measuring the impact of a near-term adverse movement of 10% in foreign currency rates against the U.S. dollar. If these rates were 10% higher or lower at December 31,   2016  , there would not have been a material impact on our annual income from continuing operations or financial position. 
  
   26 

Table of Contents  

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements 
                   
    Page 
       Consolidated Statements of Income  
    28 
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income  
    29 
       Consolidated Balance Sheets  
    30 
       Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity  
    31 
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
    32 
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    33 
       Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    49 

27 

Table of Contents  

Fiserv, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Income 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
    
  28 

Table of Contents  

Fiserv, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
    
  29 

Table of Contents  

Fiserv, Inc. 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
    
  30 

Table of Contents  

Fiserv, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Shareholders  Equity 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
    
  31 

Table of Contents  

Fiserv, Inc. 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 

See accompanying notes to consolidated financial statements. 
    
  32 

Table of Contents  

Fiserv, Inc. 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

1. Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  Description of the Business 
  Fiserv, Inc. and its subsidiaries (collectively, the  Company ) provide financial services technology to clients worldwide, including banks, thrifts, credit unions, investment management firms, leasing and finance companies, retailers, merchants, mutual savings banks, and building societies. The Company provides account processing systems, electronic payments processing products and services, internet and mobile banking systems, and related services. The Company is principally located in the United States where it operates data and transaction processing centers, provides technology support, develops software and payment solutions, and offers consulting services. 
  The Company s operations are comprised of the Payments and Industry Products ( Payments ) segment and the Financial Institution Services ( Financial ) segment. Additional information regarding the Company s business segments is included in Note   8  . 
  Principles of Consolidation 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Fiserv, Inc. and all   100%   owned subsidiaries. Investments in less than   50%   owned affiliates in which the Company has significant influence but not control are accounted for using the equity method of accounting. All intercompany transactions and balances have been eliminated in consolidation. 
  Use of Estimates 
  The preparation of financial statements in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and the reported amounts of revenue and expenses during the reporting period. Actual results could differ materially from those estimates. 
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
  In January 2017, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2017-04,   Intangibles - Goodwill and Other (Topic 350): Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment   ( ASU 2017-04 ), which eliminates Step 2 of the goodwill impairment test that had required a hypothetical purchase price allocation. Rather, entities should apply the same impairment assessment to all reporting units and recognize an impairment loss for the amount by which a reporting unit's carrying amount exceeds its fair value, without exceeding the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. Entities will continue to have the option to perform a qualitative assessment for a reporting unit to determine if the quantitative impairment test is necessary. ASU 2017-04 will be effective prospectively for annual or interim goodwill impairment tests in fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2019, or those beginning after January 1, 2017 if early adopted. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2017-04 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01,   Business Combinations (Topic 805): Clarifying the Definition of a Business   ( ASU 2017-01 ), which clarifies the definition of a business with the objective of adding guidance and providing a more robust framework to assist reporting organizations with evaluating whether transactions should be accounted for as acquisitions (or disposals) of assets or businesses. For public entities, ASU 2017-01 is effective prospectively for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted for transactions occurring before the issuance or effective date of the standard for which financial statements have not yet been issued. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2017-01 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16,   Income Taxes (Topic 740): Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory   ( ASU 2016-16 ), which eliminates the current prohibition on immediate recognition of the current and deferred income tax effects of intra-entity transfers of assets other than inventory, with the intent of reducing complexity and diversity in practice. Under ASU 2016-16, entities must recognize the income tax consequences when the transfer occurs rather than deferring recognition. For public entities, ASU 2016-16 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted as of the beginning of a fiscal year. Entities must apply the guidance on a modified retrospective basis though a cumulative-effect adjustment to retained earnings as of the beginning of the period of adoption. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-16 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
  
   33 

     Table of Contents  

In August 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-15,   Statement of Cash Flows (Topic 230): Classification of Certain Cash Receipts and Cash Payments   ( ASU 2016-15 ), which adds or clarifies guidance on the presentation and classification of eight specific types of cash receipts and cash payments in the statement of cash flows, with the intent of reducing diversity in practice. For public entities, ASU 2016-15 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted. Entities must apply the guidance retrospectively to all periods presented; however, entities may apply prospectively if retrospective application is impracticable. The Company does not expect the adoption of ASU 2016-15 to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13,   Financial Instruments - Credit Losses (Topic 326)   ( ASU 2016-13 ), which prescribes an impairment model for most financial assets based on expected losses rather than incurred losses. Under this model, an estimate of   expected credit losses over the contractual life of the instrument is to be recorded as of the end of a reporting period as an allowance to offset the amortized cost basis, resulting in a net presentation of the amount expected to be collected on the financial asset.   For public entities, ASU 2016-13 is effective for fiscal years, including interim periods within those fiscal years, beginning after December 15, 2019. Early adoption is permitted for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2018, including interim periods within those fiscal years. For most instruments, entities must apply the standard using a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-13 will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-09,   Compensation - Stock Compensation (Topic 718): Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting   ( ASU 2016-09 ), which simplifies several aspects of the accounting for share-based payment awards, including the accounting for income taxes and forfeitures, as well as classification in the statement of cash flows. The standard requires that all tax effects related to share-based payments be recorded as income tax expense or benefit in the income statement at settlement or expiration and, accordingly, excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies be presented as operating activities in the statement of cash flows. For public entities, ASU 2016-09 is effective for annual periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim periods within those annual periods, with early adoption permitted in any interim or annual period for which financial statements have not yet been issued. The recognition of all excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies in the income statement, as well as related changes to the computation of diluted earnings per share, is to be applied prospectively. Entities may elect to apply the change in presentation in the statement of cash flows either prospectively or retrospectively to all periods presented. The impact of adopting this standard on the Company s consolidated financial statements is dependent upon the intrinsic value of share-based compensation awards at the time of exercise or vesting and may result in more variability in effective tax rates and net earnings, and may also impact the dilution of common stock equivalents. The Company recorded   $46 million  ,   $47 million   and   $18 million   in 2016, 2015 and 2014, respectively, to consolidated equity as excess tax benefits from share-based compensation awards. The Company plans to adopt ASU 2016-09 in the first quarter of 2017 and intends to apply the change in presentation in the statement of cash flows on a prospective basis. 
  In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02,   Leases (Topic 842)   ( ASU 2016-02 ), which requires lessees to recognize a lease liability and a right-of-use asset for each lease with a term longer than twelve months. The recognized liability is measured at the present value of lease payments not yet paid, and the corresponding asset represents the lessee s right to use the underlying asset over the lease term and is based on the liability, subject to certain adjustments. For income statement purposes, the standard retains the dual model with leases classified as either operating or finance. Operating leases will result in straight-line expense while finance leases will result in a front-loaded expense pattern. For public entities, ASU 2016-02 is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2018, with early adoption permitted. The standard requires a modified retrospective transition approach for leases existing at, or entered into after, the beginning of the earliest comparative period presented in the financial statements. The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-02 will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01,   Recognition and Measurement of Financial Assets and Financial Liabilities   ( ASU 2016-01 ), which primarily affects the accounting for equity investments, financial liabilities under the fair value option, and the presentation and disclosure requirements of financial instruments. For public entities, ASU 2016-01 is effective for fiscal years, and interim periods within those years, beginning after December 15, 2017, with early adoption permitted for certain provisions of the standard. Entities must apply the standard, with certain exceptions, using a cumulative-effect adjustment to beginning retained earnings as of the beginning of the fiscal year of adoption. The Company is currently assessing the impact that the adoption of ASU 2016-01 will have on its consolidated financial statements. 
  In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers   ( ASU 2014-09 ), to clarify the principles of recognizing revenue and to create common revenue recognition guidance between U.S. generally accepted accounting principles and International Financial Reporting Standards. ASU 2014-09 outlines a single comprehensive model for entities to use in accounting for revenue arising from contracts with customers and supersedes most current revenue recognition guidance. The core principle of the revenue model is that an entity recognizes revenue to depict the transfer of promised goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled  
  
   34 

     Table of Contents  

in exchange for those goods or services. This model involves a five-step process for achieving that core principle, along with comprehensive disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. In August 2015, the FASB issued ASU 2015-14,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date  , to defer the effective date of the new revenue standard for one year and permit early adoption as of the original effective date in ASU 2014-09. For public entities, the new revenue standard is effective for annual and interim periods beginning after December 15, 2017. The Company plans to adopt ASU 2014-09 on January 1, 2018. 
  The Company has performed a review of the requirements of the new revenue standard and related ASUs and is monitoring the activity of the FASB and the transition resource group as it relates to specific interpretive guidance. The Company is reviewing customer contracts and is in the process of applying the five-step model of the new revenue standard to each of its key identified revenue streams included within either processing and services revenue or product revenue and is comparing the results to its current accounting practices. While the Company continues to assess all potential impacts of adopting this new revenue standard on its consolidated financial statements, it currently believes the new revenue standard will not have a significant impact on the accounting for stand-ready account- and transaction-based processing fees, the Company s most significant revenue stream. Areas that the Company currently expects will be impacted by the new revenue standard include the accounting for costs to obtain a contract, such as commissions for sales personnel, which are currently expensed as incurred, and the timing of revenue recognition of certain termination fees over the modified contract term, which will generally result in an acceleration of revenue as compared to our current accounting practice. 
  Entities have the option of adopting this new guidance using either a full retrospective or a modified approach with the cumulative effect of applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application. The Company is currently evaluating the transition method to elect as well as necessary control and process changes due to implementing the new revenue standard. 
  Fair Value Measurements 
  The Company applies fair value accounting for all assets and liabilities that are recognized or disclosed at fair value in its consolidated financial statements on a recurring basis. Fair value represents the amount that would be received from selling an asset or paid to transfer a liability in an orderly transaction between market participants at the measurement date. When determining the fair value measurements for assets and liabilities, the Company considers the principal or most advantageous market and the market-based risk measurements or assumptions that market participants would use in pricing the asset or liability. 
  The fair values of cash equivalents, trade accounts receivable, settlement assets and obligations, accounts payable, and client deposits approximate their respective carrying values due to the short period of time to maturity. The estimated fair value of total debt is described in Note   4   and was based on quoted prices in active markets for the Company's senior notes (level 1 of the fair value hierarchy) and discounted cash flows based on the Company s current incremental borrowing rate for its term loan (level 3 of the fair value hierarchy). The fair value of the Company s revolving credit facility borrowings approximates carrying value as the underlying interest rate is variable based on LIBOR. 
  Derivatives 
  Derivatives are recorded in the consolidated balance sheets as either an asset or liability measured at fair value. If the derivative is designated as a cash flow hedge, the effective portions of the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recorded as a component of accumulated other comprehensive loss and recognized in the consolidated statements of income when the hedged item affects earnings. If the derivative is designated as a fair value hedge, the changes in the fair value of the derivative are recognized in earnings. To the extent the fair value hedge is effective, there is an offsetting adjustment to the basis of the item being hedged. Ineffective portions of changes in the fair value of hedges are recognized in earnings. The Company s policy is to enter into derivatives with creditworthy institutions and not to enter into such derivatives for speculative purposes. 
  Foreign Currency 
  Foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, where the functional currency is the local currency, are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rates in effect at the balance sheet date. Revenue and expenses are translated at the average exchange rates during the period. Gains and losses from foreign currency translation are recorded as a separate component of accumulated other comprehensive loss. 
  Revenue Recognition 
  The Company generates revenue from the delivery of processing, service and product solutions. Revenue is recognized when written contracts are signed, delivery has occurred, the fees are fixed or determinable, and collectability is reasonably assured. 
  
   35 

     Table of Contents  

Processing and services revenue is recognized as services are provided and is primarily derived from contracts that generate account- and transaction-based fees for data processing, transaction processing, electronic billing and payment services, electronic funds transfer, and debit processing services. In addition, processing and services revenue is derived from the fulfillment of professional services, including consulting activities. Certain of the Company s revenue is generated from multiple element arrangements involving various combinations of product and service deliverables. The deliverables within these arrangements are evaluated at contract inception to determine whether they represent separate units of accounting, and if so, contract consideration is allocated to each deliverable based on relative selling price. The relative selling price is determined using vendor specific objective evidence of fair value, third-party evidence or best estimate of selling price. Revenue is then recognized in accordance with the appropriate revenue recognition guidance applicable to the respective elements. Also included in processing and services revenue is software maintenance fee revenue for ongoing client support, which is recognized ratably over the term of the applicable support period, generally   12 months  . Deferred revenue consists primarily of advance cash receipts for services and is recognized as revenue when the services are provided. 
  Product revenue is primarily derived from integrated print and card production sales, as well as software license sales which represented less than   4%   of total revenue. For software license agreements that do not require significant customization or modification, the Company recognizes software license revenue upon delivery, assuming persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, the license fee is fixed or determinable, and collection is reasonably assured. Arrangements with customers that include significant customization, modification or production of software are accounted for under contract accounting, with revenue recognized using the percentage-of-completion method based upon efforts-expended, such as labor hours, to measure progress towards completion. Changes in estimates for revenues, costs and profits are recognized in the period in which they are determinable and were not material for any period presented. 
  The Company includes reimbursements from clients, such as postage and telecommunication costs, in processing and services revenue and product revenue, while the related costs are included in cost of processing and services and cost of product. 
  Selling, General and Administrative Expenses 
  Selling, general and administrative expenses primarily consist of: salaries, wages, commissions and related expenses paid to sales personnel, administrative employees and management; advertising and promotional costs; depreciation and amortization; and other selling and administrative expenses. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  Cash and cash equivalents consist of cash and investments with original maturities of   90   days or less. 
  Allowance for Doubtful Accounts 
  The Company analyzes the collectibility of trade accounts receivable by considering historical bad debts, client creditworthiness, current economic trends, changes in client payment terms and collection trends when evaluating the adequacy of the allowance for doubtful accounts. Any change in the assumptions used in analyzing a specific account receivable may result in an additional allowance for doubtful accounts being recognized in the period in which the change occurs. The allowance for doubtful accounts was   $15 million   and   $11 million   at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
  Prepaid Expenses 
  Prepaid expenses represent advance payments for goods and services to be consumed in the future, such as maintenance, postage and insurance, and totaled   $141 million   and   $146 million   at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
  Settlement Assets and Obligations 
  Settlement assets of   $312 million   and   $230 million   were included in prepaid expenses and other current assets at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively, and settlement obligations of   $305 million   and   $224 million   were included in accounts payable and accrued expenses at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. Settlement assets and obligations result from timing differences between collection and fulfillment of payment transactions primarily associated with the Company s walk-in and expedited bill payment service businesses. Settlement assets represent cash received or amounts receivable from agents, payment networks or directly from consumers. Settlement obligations represent amounts payable to clients and payees. 
  
   36 

     Table of Contents  

Property and Equipment 
  Property and equipment are reported at cost. Depreciation of property and equipment is computed primarily using the straight-line method over the shorter of the estimated useful life of the asset or the leasehold period, if applicable. Property and equipment consisted of the following at December 31: 

Depreciation expense for all property and equipment totaled   $90 million  ,   $80 million   and   $71 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  Intangible Assets 
  Intangible assets consisted of the following at December 31: 

Customer related intangible assets represent customer contracts and relationships obtained as part of acquired businesses and are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally   10   to   20   years. Acquired software and technology represents software and technology intangible assets obtained as part of acquired businesses and are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally   four   to   eight   years. Trade names are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally   10   to   20   years. Amortization expense for acquired intangible assets, which include customer related intangible assets, acquired software and technology, and trade names, totaled   $158 million  ,   $194 million   and   $204 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  The Company continually develops, maintains and enhances its products and systems. Product development expenditures represented approximately   8%   of the Company s total revenue in   2016   and   9%   in each of   2015   and   2014  . Research and development costs incurred prior to the establishment of technological feasibility are expensed as incurred. Routine maintenance of software products, design costs and other development costs incurred prior to the establishment of a product s  
  
   37 

     Table of Contents  

technological feasibility are also expensed as incurred. Costs are capitalized commencing when the technological feasibility of the software has been established. 
  Capitalized software development costs represent the capitalization of certain costs incurred to develop new software or to enhance existing software which is marketed externally or utilized by the Company to process client transactions. Capitalized software development costs are amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally   five   years. Gross software development costs capitalized for new products and enhancements to existing products totaled   $143 million  ,   $137 million   and   $129 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. Amortization of previously capitalized software development costs that have been placed into service was   $106 million  ,   $92 million   and   $82 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively.   
  Purchased software represents software licenses purchased from third parties and is amortized over their estimated useful lives, generally   three   to   five   years. Amortization of purchased software totaled   $40 million  ,   $33 million   and   $29 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  The Company estimates that annual amortization expense with respect to acquired intangible assets recorded at December 31,   2016   will be approximately   $150 million   in   2017  ,   $140 million   in each of   2018   and   2019  ,   $120 million   in   2020  , and   $110 million   in   2021  . Annual amortization expense in   2017   with respect to capitalized and purchased software recorded at December 31,   2016   is estimated to approximate   $150 million  . 
  Goodwill 
  Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of identifiable net assets acquired and liabilities assumed in a business combination. The Company evaluates goodwill for impairment on an annual basis, or more frequently if circumstances indicate possible impairment. Goodwill is tested for impairment at a reporting unit level, determined to be at an operating segment level or one level below. When reviewing goodwill for impairment, the Company considers the amount of excess fair value over the carrying value of each reporting unit, the period of time since a reporting unit s last quantitative test, the extent a reorganization or disposition changes the composition of one or more of the reporting units, and other factors to determine whether or not to first perform a qualitative test. When performing a qualitative test, the Company assesses numerous factors to determine whether it is more likely than not that the fair value of its reporting units are less than their respective carrying values. Examples of qualitative factors that the Company assesses include its share price, its financial performance, market and competitive factors in its industry, and other events specific to its reporting units. If the Company concludes that it is more likely than not that the fair value of a reporting unit is less than its carrying value, the Company performs a two-step quantitative impairment test by comparing reporting unit carrying values to estimated fair values.   No   impairment was identified in the Company s annual impairment assessment in the fourth quarter of   2016   as the estimated fair values of the respective reporting units exceeded the carrying values. In addition, there is   no   accumulated impairment loss through December 31,   2016  . The changes in goodwill during   2016   and   2015   were as follows: 

Asset Impairment 
  The Company reviews property and equipment, intangible assets and its investment in unconsolidated affiliate for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of the asset may not be recoverable. The Company reviews capitalized software development costs for impairment at each balance sheet date. Recoverability of property and equipment, capitalized software development costs, and other intangible assets is assessed by comparing the carrying amount of the asset to the undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset. The Company s investment in unconsolidated affiliate is assessed by comparing the carrying amount of the investment to its estimated fair value and is impaired if any decline in fair value is determined to be other than temporary. Measurement of any impairment loss is based on estimated fair value. 
  
   38 

     Table of Contents  

Accounts Payable and Accrued Expenses 
  Accounts payable and accrued expenses consisted of the following at December 31: 

Income Taxes 
  Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the expected future tax consequences attributable to differences between financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis and net operating loss and tax credit carry-forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. A valuation allowance is recorded against deferred tax assets if it is more-likely-than-not that some portion or all of the deferred tax assets will not be realized. 
  Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
  Changes in accumulated other comprehensive loss by component, net of income taxes, consisted of the following: 

Based on the amounts recorded in accumulated other comprehensive loss at   December 31, 2016  , the Company estimates that it will recognize approximately   $10 million   in interest expense during the next twelve months related to settled interest rate hedge contracts. 
  The Company has entered into foreign currency forward exchange contracts, which have been designated as cash flow hedges, to hedge foreign currency exposure to the Indian Rupee. As of December 31,   2016  , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately   $86 million  , and the fair value totaling approximately   $1 million   is reported in prepaid expenses and other current assets in the consolidated balance sheet. As of December 31,   2015  , the notional amount of these derivatives was approximately   $85 million  , and the fair value totaling approximately   $1 million   is reported in accounts payable and accrued expenses in the consolidated balance sheet. 
  
   39 

     Table of Contents  

Net Income Per Share 
  Net income per share in each period is calculated using actual, unrounded amounts. Basic net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the year. Diluted net income per share is computed using the weighted-average number of common shares and common stock equivalents outstanding during the year. Common stock equivalents consist of stock options and restricted stock units and are computed using the treasury stock method. In   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , the Company excluded   0.8 million  ,   0.9 million   and   1.2 million   weighted-average shares, respectively, from the calculations of common stock equivalents for anti-dilutive stock options. 
  The computation of shares used in calculating basic and diluted net income per share is as follows: 

Supplemental Cash Flow Information 

2. Acquisitions 
  On January 15, 2016, the Company acquired the Convenience Pay Services business of Hewlett Packard Enterprise Company, which enables providers to accept electronic payments from their consumers through multiple channels, thereby expanding the Company s biller solution offerings. On March 3, 2016, the Company completed its purchase of the Community Financial Services business of ACI Worldwide, Inc., further enhancing the Company s suite of digital banking and payments solutions. 
  The Company acquired these businesses for an aggregate purchase price of   $265 million  . During the third quarter of 2016, the Company finalized the purchase price allocations based upon final valuations of intangible assets. The final purchase price allocations for these acquisitions did not materially change from the preliminary allocations and resulted in technology and customer intangible assets totaling approximately   $80 million  , goodwill of   $173 million  , and other identifiable net assets of approximately   $12 million   consisting primarily of accounts receivable. The goodwill, recognized within the Payments segment, from these transactions is deductible for tax purposes and is primarily attributed to synergies and anticipated revenue and earnings growth associated with the products and services that these businesses provide.  
  The results of operations for these acquired businesses, including revenue of   $86 million   in 2016, have been included in the accompanying consolidated statements of income from the dates of acquisition. As a result of these acquisitions, the Company incurred merger and integration costs, including a   $10 million   non-cash impairment charge in the first quarter of 2016 related to the Company s decision to replace existing software with an acquired solution. The related impairment charge was recorded in cost of processing and services within Corporate and Other as such amount is excluded from the Company s measure of the Payments segment s operating performance. Pro forma information for these acquisitions is not provided because they did not have a material effect on the Company s consolidated results of operations. 
   
  3. Investment in Unconsolidated Affiliate 
  The Company owns a   49%   interest in StoneRiver Group, L.P. ( StoneRiver ), which is accounted for as an equity method investment, and reports its share of StoneRiver s net income as income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate. The Company s investment in StoneRiver was   $14 million   and   $17 million   at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively, and is reported within other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheets. To the extent that the Company's cost basis is different than the basis reflected at the unconsolidated affiliate level, the basis difference is generally amortized over the lives of the related assets and included in the Company's share of equity in earnings of the unconsolidated affiliate. In   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , the Company received cash dividends, funded from capital transactions, from StoneRiver of   $151 million  ,   $36 million   and   $110 million  , respectively, which were recorded as reductions in the Company s investment in StoneRiver. The  
  
   40 

     Table of Contents  

dividends, in their entirety, represented returns on the Company's investment and are reported in cash flows from operating activities. 
    
  During the first quarter of 2016, StoneRiver recognized a gain on the sale of a business interest in which the Company s pre-tax share of this gain was   $190 million  . During the first quarter of 2016, the Company also received cash dividends of   $140 million   from StoneRiver, which were funded from the sale transaction and recorded as reductions in the Company s investment in StoneRiver. In conjunction with this activity, the Company evaluated its equity method investment in StoneRiver for its ability to recover the remaining carrying amount of such investment. Utilizing a discounted cash flow analysis (level 3 of the fair value hierarchy) to arrive at a measure of the investment s fair value, the Company recognized an impairment loss of   $44 million  . The Company's   $146 million   pre-tax share of the gain, net of the impairment loss was recorded within income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate, with the related tax expense of   $54 million   recorded through the income tax provision, in the consolidated statements of income.  
  During 2015 and 2014, StoneRiver recognized net gains on the sales of subsidiary businesses. The Company s pre-tax share of the net gains and related expenses on these transactions of   $29 million   in   2015   and   $87 million   in   2014   was recorded within income from investment in unconsolidated affiliate, with the related tax expenses of   $13 million   and   $36 million  , respectively, recorded through the income tax provision, in the accompanying consolidated statements of income. 
   
  4  . Long-Term Debt 
  The Company s long-term debt, net of discounts and debt issuance costs, consisted of the following at December 31: 

The estimated fair value of total debt was   $4.7 billion   and   $4.3 billion   at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. The Company was in compliance with all financial debt covenants during   2016  . Annual maturities of the Company s total debt were as follows at December 31,   2016  : 

41 

     Table of Contents  

Revolving Credit Facility 
  The Company maintains a   $2.0 billion   revolving credit agreement with a syndicate of banks that matures in April 2020. Borrowings under the revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus a specified margin based on the Company's long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate on the revolving credit facility borrowings was   1.81%   at December 31,   2016  . There are no significant commitment fees and no compensating balance requirements. The revolving credit facility contains various restrictions and covenants that require the Company, among other things, to: (i) limit its consolidated indebtedness as of the end of each fiscal quarter to no more than three and one-half times consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments during the period of four fiscal quarters then ended, and (ii) maintain consolidated net earnings before interest, taxes, depreciation and amortization and certain other adjustments of at least three times consolidated interest expense as of the end of each fiscal quarter for the period of four fiscal quarters then ended. 
  Term Loan 
  The Company maintains a term loan with a syndicate of banks that matures in October 2018 and bears interest at a variable rate based on LIBOR or on a base rate, plus a specified margin based on the Company s long-term debt rating in effect from time to time. The variable interest rate on the term loan borrowings was   2.02%   at December 31,   2016  . A scheduled principal payment of   $90 million   is due on December 31, 2017, with the outstanding principal balance of   $540 million   due at maturity. The term loan facility contains various restrictions and covenants substantially similar to those contained in the revolving credit facility described above.  
  Senior Notes 
  In May 2015, the Company completed an offering of   $1.75 billion   of senior notes comprised of   $850 million   aggregate principal amount of   2.7%   senior notes due in June 2020 and   $900 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.85%   senior notes due in June 2025. The notes pay interest at the stated rates semi-annually on June 1 and December 1, which commenced on December 1, 2015. The Company s   4.625%   senior notes due in October 2020 and   3.5%   senior notes due in October 2022 pay interest at the stated rates on April 1 and October 1 of each year. The Company s   4.75%   senior notes due in June 2021 pay interest at the stated rate on June 15 and December 15 of each year. The interest rates applicable to the senior notes are subject to an increase of up to   two   percent in the event that the Company s credit rating is downgraded below investment grade. The indentures governing the senior notes contain covenants that, among other matters, limit (i) the Company s ability to consolidate or merge into, or convey, transfer or lease all or substantially all of its properties and assets to, another person; (ii) the Company s and certain of its subsidiaries  ability to create or assume liens, and (iii) the Company s and certain of its subsidiaries  ability to engage in sale and leaseback transactions. In October 2015, the Company used its available borrowings under the revolving credit facility to repay the   $300 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   senior notes. 
  In May 2015, the Company used the net proceeds from the offering described above to redeem its   $600 million   aggregate principal amount of   3.125%   senior notes due in June 2016 and   $500 million   aggregate principal amount of   6.8%   senior notes due in November 2017. The Company recorded a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of   $85 million   related to make-whole payments and other costs associated with this redemption. In addition, the Company paid scheduled December 2015 and December 2016 principal payments on the term loan totaling   $180 million   and repaid, at that time, outstanding borrowings under the revolving credit facility. The remaining net proceeds from the offering were used for general corporate purposes. 
  Debt Issuance Costs 
  Debt issuance costs are amortized as a component of interest expense over the term of the underlying debt using the effective interest method. Debt issuance costs related to the Company's term loan and senior notes totaled   $17 million   and   $21 million   at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively, and are reported as a direct reduction of the related debt instrument in the consolidated balance sheets. Debt issuance costs related to the Company's revolving credit facility are reported in other long-term assets in the consolidated balance sheets and totaled   $5 million   and   $7 million   at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
  
   42 

Table of Contents  

5. Income Taxes 
  Substantially all of the Company's pre-tax earnings are derived from domestic operations in all periods presented. A reconciliation of the statutory federal income tax rate to the Company s effective income tax rate for continuing operations is as follows: 

The income tax provision for continuing operations was as follows: 

Significant components of deferred tax assets and liabilities consisted of the following at December 31: 

43 

     Table of Contents  

Deferred tax assets and liabilities are reported in the consolidated balance sheets as follows at December 31: 

Noncurrent deferred tax assets are included in other long-term assets at December 31,   2016   and   2015  . 
  Unrecognized tax benefits were as follows: 

At December 31,   2016  , unrecognized tax benefits of   $35 million  , net of federal and state benefits, would affect the effective income tax rate from continuing operations if recognized. In   2017  , reductions to unrecognized tax benefits for decreases in tax positions taken in prior years, settlements and the lapse of statutes of limitations are estimated to total approximately   $9 million  . The Company classifies interest expense and penalties related to income taxes as components of its income tax provision. The income tax provision from continuing operations included interest expense and penalties on unrecognized tax benefits of less than   $1 million   in each of   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  . Accrued interest expense and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits totaled   $2 million   and   $4 million   at December 31,   2016   and   2015  , respectively. 
  The Company s federal tax returns for 2012 and 2014 through   2016   and tax returns in certain states and foreign jurisdictions for 2006 through   2016   remain subject to examination by taxing authorities. At December 31,   2016  , the Company had federal net operating loss carry-forwards of   $84 million  , which expire in 2017 through 2031, state net operating loss carry-forwards of   $561 million  , which expire in 2017 through 2036, and foreign net operating loss carry-forwards of   $120 million  ,   $47 million   of which expire in 2017 through 2036, and the remainder of which do not expire. 
   
  6. Employee Stock and Savings Plans 
  Stock Plans 
  The Company recognizes the fair value of share-based compensation awards granted to employees in cost of processing and services, cost of product, and selling, general and administrative expense in its consolidated statements of income. 
  The Company s share-based compensation primarily consists of the following: 
  Stock Options     The Company grants stock options to employees and non-employee directors at exercise prices equal to the fair market value of the Company s stock on the dates of grant, which are typically in the first quarter of the year. Stock options generally vest over a   three  -year period beginning on the first anniversary of the grant. All stock options expire   ten   years from the date of the award. The Company recognizes compensation expense for the fair value of the stock options over the requisite service period of the stock option award. 
  Restricted Stock Units     The Company awards restricted stock units to employees and non-employee directors. The Company recognizes compensation expense for restricted stock units based on the market price of the common stock on the date of award over the period during which the awards vest. Restricted stock units generally vest over a   three  -year period beginning on the second anniversary of the award.   
  Performance Share Units     The Company awards performance share units to employees. The number of shares issued at the end of the performance period is determined by the level of achievement of pre-determined earnings and revenue growth performance goals. The Company recognizes the expense, which is determined by utilizing a  
  
   44 

     Table of Contents  

probability assessment that the performance goals will be achieved, ratably over the requisite performance period of the award. 
  Employee Stock Purchase Plan     The Company maintains an employee stock purchase plan that allows eligible employees to purchase a limited number of shares of common stock each quarter through payroll deductions at   85%   of the closing price of the Company s common stock on the last business day of each calendar quarter. The Company recognizes compensation expense related to the   15%   discount on the purchase date. 
  Share-based compensation expense was   $68 million   in   2016  ,   $65 million   in   2015   and   $49 million   in   2014  . Share-based compensation in 2016 includes expense recognized on performance share units as management views the performance goals as probable of attainment. The income tax benefits related to share-based compensation totaled   $23 million  ,   $22 million   and   $17 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. At December 31,   2016  , the total remaining unrecognized compensation cost for unvested stock options, restricted stock units and performance share units, net of estimated forfeitures, of   $85 million   is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   2.3   years. 
  The weighted-average estimated fair value of stock options granted during   2016  ,   2015   and   2014   was   $31.47  ,   $25.51   and   $18.90   per share, respectively. The fair values of stock options granted were estimated on the date of grant using a binomial option-pricing model with the following assumptions:   

  The Company determined the expected life of stock options using historical data adjusted for known factors that could alter historical exercise behavior. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. treasury yield curve in effect as of the grant date. Expected volatility is determined using weighted-average implied market volatility combined with historical volatility. The Company believes that a blend of historical volatility and implied volatility better reflects future market conditions and better indicates expected volatility than purely historical volatility. 
  A summary of stock option activity is as follows:   

  A summary of restricted stock and performance share unit activity is as follows:   

45 

     Table of Contents  

The table below presents additional information related to stock option and restricted stock unit activity:   

  As of December 31,   2016  ,   19.0 million   share-based awards were available for grant under the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan. Under its employee stock purchase plan, the Company issued   0.5 million   shares in each of   2016   and   2015  , and   0.6 million   shares in   2014  . As of December 31,   2016  , there were   9.4 million   shares available for issuance under the employee stock purchase plan. The number of shares remaining available for future issuance under the employee stock purchase plan is subject to an annual increase on the first day of each fiscal year equal to the lesser of (i)   2.0 million   shares, (ii)   1%   of the shares of the Company s common stock outstanding on such date or (iii) a lesser amount determined by the Company s board of directors. 
  Employee Savings Plans 
  The Company and its subsidiaries have defined contribution savings plans covering substantially all employees. Under the plans, eligible participants may elect to contribute a specified percentage of their salaries and the Company makes matching contributions, each subject to certain limitations. Expenses for company contributions under these plans totaled   $42 million  ,   $40 million   and   $37 million   in   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
   
  7. Leases, Commitments and Contingencies 
  Leases 
  The Company leases certain facilities and equipment under operating leases. Most leases contain renewal options for varying periods. Future minimum rental payments on operating leases with initial non-cancellable lease terms in excess of one year were due as follows at December 31,   2016  : 

Rent expense for all operating leases was   $117 million  ,   $115 million   and   $108 million   during   2016  ,   2015   and   2014  , respectively. 
  Commitments and Contingencies 
  Litigation 
  In the normal course of business, the Company or its subsidiaries are named as defendants in lawsuits in which claims are asserted against the Company. In the opinion of management, the liabilities, if any, which may ultimately result from such lawsuits are not expected to have a material adverse effect on the Company s consolidated financial statements. 
  Electronic Payments Transactions 
  In connection with the Company s processing of electronic payments transactions, funds received from subscribers are invested from the time the Company collects the funds until payments are made to the applicable recipients. These subscriber funds are invested in short-term, highly liquid investments. Subscriber funds, which are not included in the Company s consolidated  
  
   46 

     Table of Contents  

balance sheets, can fluctuate significantly based on consumer bill payment and debit card activity and totaled approximately   $1.9 billion   at December 31,   2016  . 
  Indemnifications and Warranties 
  Subject to limitations and exclusions, the Company may indemnify its clients from certain costs resulting from claims of patent, copyright or trademark infringement associated with its clients  use of the Company s products or services. The Company may also warrant to clients that its products and services will operate substantially in accordance with identified specifications. From time to time, in connection with sales of businesses, the Company agrees to indemnify the buyers for liabilities associated with the businesses that are sold. Payments, net of recoveries, under such indemnification or warranty provisions were not material to the Company s consolidated results of operations or financial position. 
   
  8  . Business Segment Information 
  The Company s operations are comprised of the Payments segment and the Financial segment. The Payments segment primarily provides electronic bill payment and presentment services, internet and mobile banking software and services, person-to-person payment services, debit and credit card processing and services, and other electronic payments software and services. The businesses in this segment also provide card and print personalization services, investment account processing services for separately managed accounts, and fraud and risk management products and services. The Financial segment provides banks, thrifts, credit unions, and leasing and finance companies with account processing services, item processing and source capture services, loan origination and servicing products, cash management and consulting services, and other products and services that support numerous types of financial transactions. Corporate and Other primarily consists of unallocated corporate expenses including share-based compensation, amortization of acquisition-related intangible assets, intercompany eliminations and other costs that are not considered when management evaluates segment performance. 

Revenue from clients outside the United States comprised approximately   5%   of total revenue in   2016   and   6%   in each of   2015   and   2014  . 
  
   47 

Table of Contents  

9. Quarterly Financial Data (unaudited) 
  Quarterly financial data for   2016   and   2015   was as follows: 

_____ 
           (1) 
    During the first quarter of 2016, the Company recognized   $146 million   associated with its pre-tax share of a net gain on the sale of a business interest by StoneRiver, with related tax expense of   $54 million  . Refer to Note 3 for more information regarding the Company's investment in StoneRiver. 
              (2) 
    Net income per share in each period is calculated using actual, unrounded amounts. 
              (3) 
    In May 2015, the Company recorded a pre-tax loss on early debt extinguishment of   $85 million   associated with the redemption of certain of its senior notes funded from the proceeds of a public offering of senior notes. Refer to Note   4   for more information regarding the Company's long-term debt. 
     
   48 

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Fiserv, Inc.: 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31,   2016   and   2015  , and the related consolidated statements of income, comprehensive income, shareholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2016  . These financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these financial statements based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement. An audit includes examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements. An audit also includes assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  In our opinion, such consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries as of December 31,   2016   and   2015  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended December 31,   2016  , in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  , based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission and our report dated   February 23, 2017   expressed an unqualified opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
  /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
  Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
  February 23, 2017    
  
   49 

Table of Contents  

Item 9.    Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
  Not applicable. 
   
  Item 9A. Controls and Procedures 
           (a) 
    Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
     Our management, with the participation of our chief executive officer and chief financial officer, evaluated the design and operation of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934). Based on this evaluation, our chief executive officer and chief financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures were effective as of December 31,   2016  . 
           (b) 
    Management Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
     Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as such term is defined in Rule 13a-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934. Our internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions. 
  Our management assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  . In making this assessment, management used the criteria set forth by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)  . Based on management s assessment, our management believes that, as of December 31,   2016  , our internal control over financial reporting was effective based on those criteria. 
  Our independent registered public accounting firm has issued their attestation report on our internal control over financial reporting. The report is included below under the heading  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting.  
           (c) 
    Changes in Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
     There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the quarter ended December 31,   2016   that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
           (d) 
    Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
     Our independent registered public accounting firm, Deloitte   Touche LLP, assessed the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting and has issued their report as set forth below. 

50 

Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  To the Board of Directors and Shareholders of Fiserv, Inc.: 
  We have audited the internal control over financial reporting of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31,   2016  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk, and performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed by, or under the supervision of, the company s principal executive and principal financial officers, or persons performing similar functions, and effected by the company s board of directors, management, and other personnel to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of the inherent limitations of internal control over financial reporting, including the possibility of collusion or improper management override of controls, material misstatements due to error or fraud may not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Also, projections of any evaluation of the effectiveness of the internal control over financial reporting to future periods are subject to the risk that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  , based on the criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. 
  We have also audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States), the consolidated financial statements as of and for the year ended December 31,   2016   of the Company and our report dated   February 23, 2017   expressed an unqualified opinion on those financial statements. 
  /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP 
  Milwaukee, Wisconsin 
  February 23, 2017    

51 

Table of Contents  

Item 9B. Other Information 
    
  John Y. Kim was appointed to the board of directors of the Company on July 11, 2016. On February 22, 2017, he was appointed to the audit committee of the board of directors.  
    
  Mr. Kim participates in the Company s standard non-employee director compensation arrangements set forth on the Non-Employee Director Compensation Schedule filed as Exhibit 10.1 to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended June 30, 2015. In connection with his election, Mr. Kim entered into the Company s Non-Employee Director Indemnity Agreement, a form of which was filed as Exhibit 10.37 to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2008. 
   
  PART III 
   
  Item 10.      Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
  Except for information concerning our executive officers included in Part I of this Form 10-K under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant,  which is incorporated by reference herein, and the information regarding our Code of Conduct below, the information required by Item 10 is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions  Our Board of Directors,   Nominees for Election,   Corporate Governance   Committees of the Board of Directors   Audit Committee,   Corporate Governance   Nominations of Directors,  and  Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2017   annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31,   2016  . 
  Our board of directors has adopted a Code of Conduct that applies to all of our directors and employees, including our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, chief accounting officer and other persons performing similar functions. We have posted a copy of our Code of Conduct on the  About   For Investors   Corporate Governance  section of our website at www.fiserv.com. We intend to satisfy the disclosure requirements under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding amendments to, or waivers from, the Code of Conduct by posting such information on the  About   For Investors  section of our website at www.fiserv.com. We are not including the information contained on our website as part of, or incorporating it by reference into, this report. 
   
  Item 11.      Executive Compensation 
  The information required by Item 11 is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions  Director Compensation,   Compensation Discussion and Analysis,   Compensation Committee Report,   Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation,  and  Executive Compensation  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2017   annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31,   2016  . 
   
  Item 12.      Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
  The information set forth under the caption  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2017   annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31,   2016  , is incorporated by reference herein. 
  
   52 

     Table of Contents  

Equity Compensation Plan Information 
  The table below sets forth information with respect to compensation plans under which equity securities are authorized for issuance as of December 31,   2016  . 

(1) 
    Columns (a) and (c) of the table above do not include   1,189,096   unvested restricted stock units outstanding under the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the  Incentive Plan ) or   9,431,608   shares authorized for issuance under the Fiserv, Inc. Amended and Restated Employee Stock Purchase Plan. The number of shares remaining available for future issuance under the employee stock purchase plan is subject to an annual increase on the first day of each fiscal year equal to the lesser of (i) 2,000,000 shares, (ii) 1% of the shares of our common stock outstanding on such date or (iii) a lesser amount determined by our board of directors. 
              (2) 
    Consists of options outstanding under the Incentive Plan and the Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan as well as   149,013   shares subject to performance share units at the target award level under the Incentive Plan and   75,309   shares subject to non-employee director deferred compensation notional units under the Incentive Plan. 
              (3) 
    Represents the weighted average exercise price of outstanding options and does not take into account outstanding performance share units or non-employee director deferred compensation notional units. 
              (4) 
    Reflects the number of shares available for future issuance under the Incentive Plan. No additional awards may be granted under the Fiserv, Inc. Stock Option and Restricted Stock Plan. 
      
  Item 13.      Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
  The information required by Item 13 is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions  Corporate Governance   Director Independence,  and  Corporate Governance   Review, Approval or Ratification of Transactions with Related Persons,  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2017   annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31,   2016  . 
   
  Item 14.      Principal Accounting Fees and Services 
  The information required by Item 14 is incorporated by reference to the information set forth under the captions  Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm and Fees  and  Audit Committee Pre-Approval Policy  in our definitive proxy statement for our   2017   annual meeting of shareholders, which will be filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission no later than 120 days after the close of the fiscal year ended December 31,   2016  . 
  
   53 

Table of Contents  

PART IV 
   
  Item 15.      Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules 
  Financial Statement Schedules 
  Financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the consolidated financial statements or accompanying notes. 
  Exhibits 
  The exhibits listed in the accompanying exhibit index are filed as part of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
   
  Item 16. Form 10-K Summary 
    
  None. 

54 

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized on   February 23, 2017  . 
                     
    FISERV, INC. 

By: 
    /s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki 

Jeffery W. Yabuki 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on   February 23, 2017  . 
                   Name 
       
    Capacity 

/s/ Daniel P. Kearney 
       
    Chairman of the Board 
      Daniel P. Kearney 

/s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki 
       
    Director, President and Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer) 
      Jeffery W. Yabuki 

/s/ Robert W. Hau 
       
    Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 
  (Principal Financial Officer) 
      Robert W. Hau 

/s/ Kenneth F. Best 
       
    Chief Accounting Officer 
  (Principal Accounting Officer) 
      Kenneth F. Best 

/s/ Alison Davis 
       
    Director 
      Alison Davis 

/s/ John Kim 
       
    Director 
      John Kim 

/s/ Dennis F. Lynch 
       
    Director 
      Dennis F. Lynch 

/s/ Denis J. O Leary 
       
    Director 
      Denis J. O Leary 

/s/ Glenn M. Renwick 
       
    Director 
      Glenn M. Renwick 

/s/ Kim M. Robak 
       
    Director 
      Kim M. Robak 

/s/ JD Sherman 
      
    Director 
      JD Sherman 

/s/ Doyle R. Simons 
       
    Director 
      Doyle R. Simons 

/s/ Thomas C. Wertheimer 
       
    Director 
      Thomas C. Wertheimer 

55 

Table of Contents  

EXHIBIT INDEX 
    
                   Exhibit 
  Number 
    Exhibit Description 
        
    3.1 
    Restated Articles of Incorporation (1) 
        
    3.2 
    Amended and Restated By-laws (2) 
        
    4.1 
    Second Amended and Restated Credit Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2015, among Fiserv, Inc. and the financial institutions party thereto (3) 
        
    4.2 
    Loan Agreement, dated as of October 25, 2013, among Fiserv, Inc. and the financial institutions party thereto (4) 
        
    4.3 
    Amendment No. 1 to Loan Agreement, dated as of April 30, 2015, among Fiserv, Inc. and the financial institutions party thereto (3) 
        
    4.4 
    Indenture, dated as of November 20, 2007, by and among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (5) 
        
    4.5 
    Sixth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 21, 2010, among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (6) 
        
    4.6 
    Eighth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of June 14, 2011, among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (7) 
        
    4.7 
    Tenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of September 25, 2012, among Fiserv, Inc., the guarantors named therein and U.S. Bank National Association (8) 
        
    4.8 
    Twelfth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 22, 2015, between Fiserv, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (9) 
        
    4.9 
    Thirteenth Supplemental Indenture, dated as of May 22, 2015, between Fiserv, Inc. and U.S. Bank National Association (9) 

Pursuant to Item 601(b)(4)(iii) of Regulation S-K, the Company agrees to furnish to the Securities and Exchange Commission, upon request, any instrument defining the rights of holders of long-term debt that is not filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K. 
        
    10.1 
    Fiserv, Inc. Amended and Restated 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (10)* 

Fiserv, Inc. Amended and Restated 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan Forms of Award Agreements 
        
    10.2 
    - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (Non Employee Director) (11)* 
        
    10.3 
    - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (Employee-PR)*  
        
    10.4 
    - Form of Amendment to Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (Employee-PR) (12)* 
        
    10.5 
    - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (Employee-E)* 
        
    10.6 
    - Form of Restricted Stock Unit Agreement (Employee-N)* 
        
    10.7 
    - Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (Non-Employee Director) (11)* 
        
    10.8 
    - Form of Stock Option Agreement (Employee-F)* 
        
    10.9 
    - Form of Amendment to Stock Option Agreement (Employee-F) (12)* 
        
    10.10 
    - Form of Stock Option Agreement (Employee-E)* 
        
    10.11 
    - Form of Stock Option Agreement (Employee-N)* 
        
    10.12 
    - Form of Non-Qualified Stock Option Agreement (Special Equity Award 2008) (13)* 
        
    10.13 
    - Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement (Employee-PR)* 
        
    10.14 
    - Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement (Employee-E)* 
        
    10.15 
    - Form of Performance Share Unit Agreement (Employee-N)* 
        
    10.16 
    Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 22, 2008, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (14)* 
        
    10.17 
    Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated February 26, 2009, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (15)* 
        
    10.18 
    Amendment No. 2 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated December 30, 2009, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (16)* 
        
    10.19 
    Amendment No. 3 to Amended and Restated Employment Agreement, dated March 29, 2016, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (17)* 
        
    10.20 
    Amended and Restated Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement, dated December 22, 2008, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (14)* 
        
    10.21 
    Amendment No. 1 to Amended and Restated Key Executive Employment and Severance Agreement, dated March 29, 2016, between Fiserv, Inc. and Jeffery W. Yabuki (17)* 

Table of Contents  

_____ 
  *    This exhibit is a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

(1) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 3, 2013, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (2) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 19, 2016, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (3) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 5, 2015, and incorporated herein by reference. 
     
     Table of Contents  

(4) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 29, 2013, and incorporated herein by reference. 

(6) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 21, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (7) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on June 14, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (8) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on September 25, 2012, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (9) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 22, 2015, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (10) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 20, 2014, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (11) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 24, 2012, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (12) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 20, 2015, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (13) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 28, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (14) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 23, 2008, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (15) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 27, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (16) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on December 30, 2009, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (17) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on April 1, 2016, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (18) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on May 27, 2011, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (19) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Annual Report on Form 10-K filed on February 26, 2010, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (20) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on October 30, 2013, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (21) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on July 30, 2014, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (22) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on February 16, 2016, and incorporated herein by reference. 

Table of Contents  

(23) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on May 6, 2016, and incorporated herein by reference. 
       
           (24) 
    Previously filed as an exhibit to the Company s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on July 30, 2015, and incorporated herein by reference. 

<EX-10.3>
 2
 ex10312312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.3

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.3 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD MEMORANDUM    
  EMPLOYEE 

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME] [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Number of Shares Subject to Award: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES] 

Vesting Schedule: 
      
    [  VESTING SCHEDULE  ] 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. As a condition to your receipt of Shares, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.  
    
  Note  : Section 4(c) of the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions.  

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT  
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you Restricted Stock Units (the    Award   ) entitling you to receive such number of shares of Company common stock (the    Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.  
           1. 
    Grant Date  .   The Award is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum. 
              2. 
    Vesting  .   Provided that you are an employee as of the applicable date, this Award will vest as indicated in the Award Memorandum, and, subject to any deferral election then in effect, the Shares subject to this Award will be issued as indicated in this Agreement. 
              3.   
    Termination of Award  .    Your Award shall terminate in all events on the earlier of (a) the date upon which vesting is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement or (b) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.  
              4. 
    Confidential Information; Non-Competition; Related Covenants  .    
              (a) 
    Definitions. 
              (i) 
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns. 
              (ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained. 
              (iii) 
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv. For purposes of this Section 4, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so. 
     
   1 

(iv) 
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service. 
              (v) 
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business. 
              (vi) 
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship. 
              (vii) 
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv. 
              (viii) 
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  
              (b)  
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv. You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof. You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company:  
              (i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv. You agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 
              (ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation. You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or, where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation. 
     
   2 

(A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 
              (B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 
     You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 
           (c)  
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 
              (i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv. 
              (ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law. 
     No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended.  
           (d)  
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 4 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 4 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law. In the event of a breach of this Section 4, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall  
     
   3 

be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances. The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 4, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 4(c) during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment. You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement.  
  (e)  You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 4, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 
           (f)   
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 
     (g)  YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 4 AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 
  5.       Termination of Employment  . 
           (a) 
    Vesting.    If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason (a    Termination Event   ), the unvested portion of the Award shall terminate on the date on which such Termination Event occurs;   provided that  , if the reason for your Termination Event is death, Disability or Retirement, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award as of the date of your death, Disability or Retirement, subject to any deferral election then in effect, shall be calculated as follows: (i) the total number of Shares subject to this Award divided by four   times   (ii) the number of Grant Date anniversaries that have occurred since the Grant Date   minus   (iii) the number of Shares already issued to you or deferred pursuant to the Award.  
     For purposes of this Section 5,    Retirement    means the cessation of service as an employee for any reason other than death, Disability or termination for Cause and (A) you are at least 60 years of age and your age plus years of service to the Company and its subsidiaries is equal to or greater than 70 or (B) you are least 65 years of age.  
  If you are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per calendar week for the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, you will be deemed to have experienced a Termination Event. 
           (b) 
    Change of Control.   If a Change of Control of the Company occurs, the provisions of Section 17(c) of the Plan shall apply to this Award. If the successor or purchaser in the Change of Control has assumed the Company s obligations with respect to this Award or provided a substitute award as contemplated by Section 17(c)(i) of the Plan and, within 12 months following the occurrence of the Change of Control, you are terminated without Cause or you terminate your employment for Good Reason (as hereinafter defined), this Award or such substitute award shall become fully vested, and the provisions of Section 4 shall immediately cease to apply. 
        Good Reason    means your suffering any of the following events without your consent: (x) significant or material lessening of your responsibilities; (y) a reduction in your annual base salary or a material reduction in the level of incentive compensation for which you have been eligible during the two years immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control and/or a material adverse change in the conditions governing receipt of such incentive compensation from those that prevailed prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control; or (z) the Company requiring you to be based anywhere other than within 50 miles of your place of employment at the  
  
   4 

time of the occurrence of the Change of Control, except for reasonably required travel to an extent substantially consistent with your business travel obligations. 
           (c) 
    Service as Director.    For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director. 
              (d) 
    No Further Obligation  . The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Award if the Award terminates as provided herein. 
              6.  
    Deferral of Restricted Stock Units  . If you are eligible to, and properly elect to, defer delivery of all or part of the Shares otherwise issuable under this Award, such deferral will be governed by the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form executed by you separately from this Agreement.   
              7.  
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Shares to you as soon as practicable after the Award vests, or, if a deferral election was made, at the time specified in the Deferral Election Form; provided that, if no deferral election is in effect and vesting occurs as a result of your Retirement, the Shares will be delivered upon your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A, or if you are a specified employee within the meaning of Code Section 409A, immediately following the six-month anniversary of the date of your separation from service. If you die before the Company has distributed any portion of the vested Shares, the Company will issue the Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Shares will be issued and delivered in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it.  Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award or the Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws, and/or (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) or any stock exchange upon which the Shares are listed.  The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions.  
              8.  
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Shares have been issued under this Award, this Award and the Shares issuable hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Award, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Award and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.  
              9.  
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Shares issued to you hereunder may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the Award or the payment event specified in a deferral election as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience (provided that any such period shall be in compliance with Code Section  
     
   5 

409A); and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.  
           10.  
    Dividends; No Rights as Shareholder  .   If the Company declares a cash dividend and the dividend record date occurs prior to the date the Award vests, you will be credited with an additional number of Restricted Stock Units on the date the cash dividends are paid to the Company shareholders equal to (a) the amount of cash dividends payable with respect to a number of shares of stock equal to your Restricted Stock Units divided by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the dividend is paid. These additional Restricted Stock Units will be subject to the same terms and conditions as the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which the dividend equivalents were credited. Until this Award vests and the Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or, except as provided in this Section 10, the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Award or the Shares subject hereto.  
              11.  
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.   
              12.  
    Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.  
              13.  
    Securities and Tax Representations  .    
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement and any disposition of Shares and that upon the acquisition of any Shares subject to this Award, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement.  
              (b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences associated with the granting of the Award, the vesting of the Award, the deferral of all or a portion of the Shares otherwise issuable upon vesting of the Award, and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Shares. You understand and agree that when this Award vests and Shares are issued, and you thereby realize gross income (if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such vesting or issuance, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such vesting.  You hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Shares equal in value to the federal, state and local taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income in relation to the Award or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion.  
     14.    Market Stand-Off  .    The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended.  Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise  
  
   6 

dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any Shares acquired under this Award without the prior written consent of the Company.  Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company.  In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days. 
            (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability. 
              (b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum, the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form, if any, contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Award and the Shares and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto. 
              (c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan. 
              (d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 
              (e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise. 
              (f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions. 
              (g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the administrative agent s website (  www.netbenefits.fidelity.com  ) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request. 
              (h) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder. 
              (i) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind this Award and/or the Shares in certain circumstances.  
     By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.  
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your receipt of Shares. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.    

7 

</EX-10.3>

<EX-10.5>
 3
 ex10512312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.5

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.5 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD MEMORANDUM  
  EMPLOYEE (EC RET) 

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME] [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Number of Shares Subject to Award: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES] 

Date Vested: 
      
    [VESTING SCHEDULE] 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. As a condition to your receipt of Shares, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.  
  Note  : Section 4(c) of the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions.  

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT  
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you Restricted Stock Units (the    Award   ) entitling you to receive such number of shares of Company common stock (the    Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.  
    
                 1. 
    Grant Date  .   The Award is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum.  

2. 
    Vesting  .   Provided that you are an employee as of the applicable date, this Award will vest as indicated in the Award Memorandum, and, subject to any deferral election then in effect, the Shares subject to this Award will be issued as indicated in this Agreement.  This Award also may continue to vest following your Retirement (as defined below) as described in Section 5(a). 

3. 
    Termination of Award  . Your Award shall terminate in all events on the earlier of (a) the date upon which vesting is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement or (b) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement. 

4. 
    Confidential Information; Non-Competition; Related Covenants  .    

(a) 
    Definitions. 

(i) 
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns.  

(ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained.  

(iii) 
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv. For purposes of this Section 4, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so.  

1 

(iv) 
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service.  

(v) 
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business.  

(vi) 
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship.  

(vii) 
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(viii) 
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(b) 
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv. You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof. You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company: 

(i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv. You agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 

(ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation. You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or, where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation. 

2 

(A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 

(B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 

You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 

(c) 
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 

(i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv. 

(ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv (or, in the case of Retirement, for a period of 12 months following the later of (x) the date of the last restricted stock unit vesting event following Retirement or (y) the latest date upon which you are entitled to exercise an option following Retirement (in either case, assuming no Post-Retirement Violation)), you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law. 

No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended.  
  
   3 

(d) 
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 4 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 4 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law. In the event of a breach of this Section 4, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances. The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 4, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 4(c) during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment. You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement. 

(e) 
    You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 4, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 

(f) 
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 

(g) 
    YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 4 AND SECTION 5(a)(ii)(F) AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 

5. 
    Termination of Employment.  
        
    (a) 
    Vesting  .  If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason (a    Termination Event   ), the unvested portion of the Award shall terminate on the date on which such Termination Event occurs;   provided that  , if the reason for your Termination Event is: 
    
  (i)        death or Disability, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award as of the date of your death or Disability, subject to any deferral election then in effect, shall be calculated as follows: (A) the total number of Shares subject to this Award divided by four   times   (B) the number of Grant Date anniversaries that have occurred since the Grant Date   minus   (C) the number of Shares already issued to you or deferred pursuant to the Award;  
    
  (ii)        Retirement, then the unvested portion of the Award shall continue to vest on the dates indicated in the Award Memorandum as if you had not ceased to be an employee.  Notwithstanding the foregoing:  
    
  (A)   If you receive written notification from the Compensation Committee that you failed to provide for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor, then any portion of the Award that is unvested as of the date of such notification shall terminate as of such date. 
    
  (B)    If, at any time following your Retirement, one of the following events occurs (a    Post-Retirement Violation   ), then any portion of the Award that is unvested as of the date of such Post-Retirement Violation shall terminate as of the date such event occurs:  (I) you commence employment of any kind (other than board or public service, work for a not-for-profit or de minimis for-profit employment); (II) you commence work of any kind for a Competitor, including as an employee, board member, consultant or otherwise; or (III) you violate any post-employment covenant applicable to you 

4 

under any agreement in effect with, or policy of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including without limitation those set forth in Section 4.      
  (C)   If, while this Award is outstanding, you commence employment or other work of any kind following your Retirement, you are required to promptly provide written notice to the Company of the name of your employer and the nature of your position or other work.   
    
  (D)   If you receive any benefit under this Award after the date of a Post-Retirement Violation, then you will be obligated to repay to the Company the value of such benefit (with such value to be determined by the Company, which may include a reasonable rate of interest) promptly following your receipt of notice of such repayment obligation from the Company.     
    
  (E)   All determinations regarding whether you have engaged in a Post-Retirement Violation shall be made by the Compensation Committee.   
    
  (F)   Without limiting any other provision of this Agreement, if a Post-Retirement Violation described in (ii)(B)(II) or (III) above occurs following Retirement, the Company shall be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die after Retirement and prior to the date the Award vests in full (and provided that a Post-Retirement Violation has not occurred), then the Award shall become fully vested as of the date of your death.  
    
  If you are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per calendar week for the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, you will be deemed to have experienced a Termination Event. 
        
    (b) 
    Retirement  .   For purposes of this Section 5,    Retirement    means the cessation of service as an employee for any reason other than death, Disability or termination for Cause if:     
  (i)   (A) you are at least 50 years of age and your age plus years of service to the Company and its subsidiaries is equal to or greater than 70 (with at least 5 years of continuous service to the Company and its subsidiaries immediately prior to such cessation of service) or (B) you are at least 55 years of age with at least 5 years of continuous service to the Company and its subsidiaries immediately prior to such cessation of service; and 
    
  (ii)   you have provided for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor, including by:  (A) providing notice to the Company s Chief Executive Officer (or, if you are the Chief Executive Officer, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors) of your consideration of Retirement sufficiently in advance of your proposed date of Retirement; and (B) assisting with the identification and selection of, and transition of your duties to, a successor ((A) and (B) being referred to herein collectively as the    Specified Transition Requirements   ). 
    
  If you meet the criteria in paragraph (i) above and you satisfy the Specified Transition Requirements, your cessation of service will be deemed to be a qualifying Retirement; provided that, the Compensation Committee may determine, within 30 days after your cessation of service, that you failed to provide for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor.  By way of example only, this could result from providing too short of notice or not providing an adequate amount of transition assistance. 

5 

(c) 
    Change of Control  . If a Change of Control of the Company occurs, the provisions of Section 17(c) of the Plan shall apply to this Award. If the successor or purchaser in the Change of Control has assumed the Company s obligations with respect to this Award or provided a substitute award as contemplated by Section 17(c)(i) of the Plan and, within 12 months following the occurrence of the Change of Control, you are terminated without Cause or you terminate your employment for Good Reason (as hereinafter defined), this Award or such substitute award shall become fully vested, and the provisions of Section 4 shall immediately cease to apply.  

Good Reason    means your suffering any of the following events without your consent: (x) significant or material lessening of your responsibilities; (y) a reduction in your annual base salary or a material reduction in the level of incentive compensation for which you have been eligible during the two years immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control and/or a material adverse change in the conditions governing receipt of such incentive compensation from those that prevailed prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control; or (z) the Company requiring you to be based anywhere other than within 50 miles of your place of employment at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control, except for reasonably required travel to an extent substantially consistent with your business travel obligations.  
    
  If the Change of Control of the Company occurs after your Retirement and prior to the date this Award has become vested in full (and prior to the occurrence of a Post-Retirement Violation), and if the successor or purchaser in the Change of Control does not either assume the Company s obligations with respect to the Award or provide a substitute award, then this Award shall vest in full immediately prior to the date of such Change of Control.  
                     
    (d) 
    Service as Director  . For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director.  

(e) 
    No Further Obligation  . The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Award if the Award terminates as provided herein.  

6.  
    Deferral of Restricted Stock Units  . If you are eligible to, and properly elect to, defer delivery of all or part of the Shares otherwise issuable under this Award, such deferral will be governed by the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form executed by you separately from this Agreement.  
              7.  
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Shares to you as soon as practicable after the Award vests (pursuant to the terms hereof) with respect to such Shares, or, if a deferral election was made, at the time specified in the Deferral Election Form; provided that, if the Award vests as a result of a Termination Event resulting from your Disability after you become Retirement-eligible, then  the Shares will be delivered upon the next scheduled vesting date after your separation from service within the meaning of Code Section 409A. If you die before the Company has distributed any portion of the vested Shares, the Company will issue the Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Shares will be issued and delivered in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it. Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award or the Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws and (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) or any stock exchange upon which the Shares are listed.  The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions. 
              8.  
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Shares have been issued under this Award, this Award and the Shares  
     
   6 

issuable hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Award, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Award and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.  
           9.  
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Shares issued to you hereunder may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the Award or the payment event specified in a deferral election as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience (provided that any such period shall be in compliance with Code Section 409A); and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.  
              10.  
    Dividends; No Rights as Shareholder  .   If the Company declares a cash dividend and the dividend record date occurs prior to the date the Award vests, you will be credited with an additional number of Restricted Stock Units on the date the cash dividends are paid to the Company shareholders equal to (a) the amount of cash dividends payable with respect to a number of shares of stock equal to your Restricted Stock Units divided by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the dividend is paid. These additional Restricted Stock Units will be subject to the same terms and conditions as the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which the dividend equivalents were credited. Until this Award vests and the Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or, except as provided in this Section 10, the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Award or the Shares subject hereto.   
              11.  
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.   
              12.  
    Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.  
              13.  
    Securities and Tax Representations  .    
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement and any disposition of Shares and that upon the acquisition of any Shares subject to this Award, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement. 
     
   7 

(b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences associated with the granting of the Award, the vesting of the Award, the deferral of all or a portion of the Shares otherwise issuable upon vesting of the Award, and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Shares. You understand and agree that when this Award vests and Shares are issued, and you thereby realize gross income (if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such vesting or issuance, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such vesting.  You also understand and agree that the Company may be required to withhold certain payroll taxes in connection with your Retirement or your termination due to Disability prior to the issuance of Shares.  You hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Shares equal in value to the federal, state and local payroll and income taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income or wages in relation to the Award or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts, which may include deduction of such taxes from other wages owed to you by the Company or its subsidiaries. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion.   
              14.  
    Market Stand-Off  .  The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any Shares acquired under this Award without the prior written consent of the Company.  Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company.  In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.   
                         
    (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability. 

(b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum, the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form, if any, contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Award and the Shares and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto. 

(c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan. 

(d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 

(e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise. 

(f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions. 

8 

(g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the Company s administrative agent s website (www.netbenefits.fidelity.com) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request. 

(h) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder. 

(i) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind this Award and/or the Shares in certain circumstances. 

By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.  
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your receipt of Shares. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate. 

9 

</EX-10.5>

<EX-10.6>
 4
 ex10612312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.6

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.6 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AWARD MEMORANDUM  
  EMPLOYEE (EC NO RET) 

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME] [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Number of Shares Subject to Award: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES] 

Date Vested: 
      
    [VESTING SCHEDULE] 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement. As a condition to your receipt of Shares, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.  
  Note  : Section 4(c) of the Restricted Stock Unit Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions.  

RESTRICTED STOCK UNIT AGREEMENT  
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you Restricted Stock Units (the    Award   ) entitling you to receive such number of shares of Company common stock (the    Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.  
    
                 1. 
    Grant Date  .   The Award is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum.  

2. 
    Vesting  .   Provided that you are an employee as of the applicable date, this Award will vest as indicated in the Award Memorandum, and, subject to any deferral election then in effect, the Shares subject to this Award will be issued as indicated in this Agreement. 

3. 
    Termination of Award  . Your Award shall terminate in all events on the earlier of (a) the date upon which vesting is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement or (b) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement. 

4. 
    Confidential Information; Non-Competition; Related Covenants  .    

(a) 
    Definitions. 

(i) 
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns.  

(ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained.  

(iii) 
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv. For purposes of this Section 4, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so.  

1 

(iv) 
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service.  

(v) 
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business.  

(vi) 
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship.  

(vii) 
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(viii) 
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(b) 
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv. You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof. You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company: 

(i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv. You agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 

(ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation. You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or, where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation. 

2 

(A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 

(B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 

You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 

(c) 
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 

(i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv. 

(ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law. 

No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended.  
  
   3 

(d) 
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 4 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 4 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law. In the event of a breach of this Section 4, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances. The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 4, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 4(c) during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment. You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement. 

(e) 
    You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 4, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 

(f) 
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 

(g) 
    YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 4 AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 

5. 
    Termination of Employment  .    

(a) 
    Vesting  .  If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason (a    Termination Event   ), the unvested portion of the Award shall terminate on the date on which such Termination Event occurs;   provided that  , if the reason for your Termination Event is death or Disability, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award as of the date of your death or Disability, subject to any deferral election then in effect, shall be calculated as follows: (i) the total number of Shares subject to this Award divided by four   times   (ii) the number of Grant Date anniversaries that have occurred since the Grant Date   minus   (iii) the number of Shares already issued to you or deferred pursuant to the Award.  If you are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per calendar week for the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, you will be deemed to have experienced a Termination Event. 

(b) 
    Change of Control  . If a Change of Control of the Company occurs, the provisions of Section 17(c) of the Plan shall apply to this Award. If the successor or purchaser in the Change of Control has assumed the Company s obligations with respect to this Award or provided a substitute award as contemplated by Section 17(c)(i) of the Plan and, within 12 months following the occurrence of the Change of Control, you are terminated without Cause or you terminate your employment for Good Reason (as hereinafter defined), this Award or such substitute award shall become fully vested, and the provisions of Section 4 shall immediately cease to apply.  

Good Reason    means your suffering any of the following events without your consent: (x) significant or material lessening of your responsibilities; (y) a reduction in your annual base salary or a material reduction in the level of incentive compensation for which you have been eligible during the two years immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control and/or a material adverse change in the conditions governing receipt of such incentive compensation from those that prevailed prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control; or (z) the Company requiring you to be based anywhere other than within 50 miles of your place of employment at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control, except for reasonably required travel to an extent substantially consistent with your business travel obligations.  
  
   4 

(c) 
    Service as Director  . For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director.  

(d) 
    No Further Obligation  . The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Award if the Award terminates as provided herein.  

6.  
    Deferral of Restricted Stock Units  . If you are eligible to, and properly elect to, defer delivery of all or part of the Shares otherwise issuable under this Award, such deferral will be governed by the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form executed by you separately from this Agreement.  
              7.  
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Shares to you as soon as practicable after the Award vests (pursuant to the terms hereof) with respect to such Shares, or, if a deferral election was made, at the time specified in the Deferral Election Form. If you die before the Company has distributed any portion of the vested Shares, the Company will issue the Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Shares will be issued and delivered in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it. Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award or the Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws and (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) or any stock exchange upon which the Shares are listed.  The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions. 
              8.  
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Shares have been issued under this Award, this Award and the Shares issuable hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Award, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Award and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.  
              9.  
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Shares issued to you hereunder may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the Award or the payment event specified in a deferral election as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience (provided that any such period shall be in compliance with Code Section 409A); and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.  
     
   5 

10.  
    Dividends; No Rights as Shareholder  .   If the Company declares a cash dividend and the dividend record date occurs prior to the date the Award vests, you will be credited with an additional number of Restricted Stock Units on the date the cash dividends are paid to the Company shareholders equal to (a) the amount of cash dividends payable with respect to a number of shares of stock equal to your Restricted Stock Units divided by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the dividend is paid. These additional Restricted Stock Units will be subject to the same terms and conditions as the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which the dividend equivalents were credited. Until this Award vests and the Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or, except as provided in this Section 10, the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Award or the Shares subject hereto.   
              11.  
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.  
              12.  
    Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.  
              13.  
    Securities and Tax Representations  .    
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement and any disposition of Shares and that upon the acquisition of any Shares subject to this Award, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement. 
              (b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences associated with the granting of the Award, the vesting of the Award, the deferral of all or a portion of the Shares otherwise issuable upon vesting of the Award, and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Shares. You understand and agree that when this Award vests and Shares are issued, and you thereby realize gross income (if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such vesting or issuance, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such vesting.  You hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Shares equal in value to the federal, state and local payroll and income taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income or wages in relation to the Award or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts, which may include deduction of such taxes from other wages owed to you by the Company or its subsidiaries. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion.   
              14.  
    Market Stand-Off  .  The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any  
     
   6 

Shares acquired under this Award without the prior written consent of the Company.  Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company.  In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.   
                      
    (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability. 

(b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum, the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form, if any, contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Award and the Shares and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto. 

(c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan. 

(d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 

(e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise. 

(f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions. 

(g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the Company s administrative agent s website (www.netbenefits.fidelity.com) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request. 

(h) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder. 

(i) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind this Award and/or the Shares in certain circumstances. 

By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.  
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your receipt of Shares. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.    

7 

</EX-10.6>

<EX-10.8>
 5
 ex10812312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.8

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.8 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  STOCK OPTION AWARD MEMORANDUM    
  EMPLOYEE  

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME] [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Number of Shares Subject to Option: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES] 

Exercise Price Per Option Share: 
      
    [EXERCISE PRICE] 

Type of Option: 

Vesting Schedule: 
      
    [VESTING SCHEDULE] 

Expiration Date: 
      
    10 years after the Grant Date 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Stock Option Agreement. As a condition to your ability to exercise your Option, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.  
    
  Note  : Section 5(c) of the Stock Option Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions.  

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT  
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you an Option to purchase such number of shares of Company Common Stock (the    Option Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.  
           1. 
    Grant Date; Type of Option  .   The Option is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum. If the Option is designated as a  non-qualified stock option  in the Award Memorandum, then the Option will not be treated by you or the Company as an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Code. If the Option is designated as an  incentive stock option  in the Award Memorandum, then the Option is intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. 
              2. 
    Termination of Option  .   Your right to exercise the Option and to purchase the Option Shares shall expire and terminate in all events on the earliest of (a) the Expiration Date set forth in the Award Memorandum or (b) the date upon which exercise is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 7 of this Agreement or (c) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement. 
              3. 
    Exercise Price  .   The purchase price to be paid upon the exercise of the Option will be the Exercise Price Per Option Share set forth in the Award Memorandum. 
              4. 
    Vesting;     Provisions Relating to Exercise  .   Once you become entitled to exercise any part of the Option (and to purchase Option Shares) pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Award Memorandum, that right will continue until the date on which the Option expires and terminates. The right to purchase Option Shares under the Option is cumulative, so that if the full number of Option Shares is not purchased in a single transaction, the balance may be purchased at any time or from time to time thereafter during the term of the Option. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may at any time accelerate the time at which the Option becomes exercisable by you with respect to any Option Shares. The Company may cancel, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid or deferred part of the Option at any time if you are not in compliance with all applicable provisions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan. 
              5. 
    Confidential Information, Non-Competition and Related Covenants  . 
              (a) 
    Definitions. 
              (i)  
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns.  
              (ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is  
     
   1 

disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained.  
           (iii)  
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv. For purposes of this Section 5, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so. 
              (iv)  
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service.  
              (v)  
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business.  
              (vi)  
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship.  
              (vii)  
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  
              (viii)  
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv. 
               (b)  
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv. You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof. You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company: 
              (i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv. You  
     
   2 

agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 
           (ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation. You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation. 
               (A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 
              (B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 
     You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 
           (c) 
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 
              (i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv. 
              (ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law. 
     
   3 

No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended.  
           (d)  
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 5 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 5 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law. In the event of a breach of this Section 5, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances. The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 5, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 5(c)  during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment. You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement. 
              (e)  
    You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 5, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 
              (f)  
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 
              (g)  
    YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 5 AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 
                6. 
    Exercise of Option  .   To exercise the Option, you must complete the transaction through our administrative agent s website at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com or call its toll free number at (800) 544-9354, specifying the number of Option Shares being purchased as a result of such exercise, and make payment of the full Exercise Price for the Option Shares being purchased. In no event may a fraction of a share be exercised or acquired. You must also pay any taxes or other amounts required to be withheld as provided in Section 9 of this Agreement. 
                7. 
    Termination of Employment  . 
              (a) 
    Vesting  . If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason other than Cause (a    Termination Event   ), the Option may be exercised to the same extent that you were entitled to exercise the Option on the date of the Termination Event and had not previously done so. The remaining Option Shares that are not vested on such date shall become exercisable as follows: 
        
                     Reason for Termination Event 
      
    Unvested Option Shares that Become Exercisable 
      
      Death, Disability, or Retirement 
      
    100% 
      
      Any other reason 
      
    0% 

For purposes of this Section 7,    Retirement    means the cessation of service as an employee for any reason other than death, Disability or termination for Cause and (A) you are at least 60 years of age and your age plus years of service to the Company and its subsidiaries is equal to or greater than 70 or (B)  you are least 65 years of age.  
  
   4 

If you are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per calendar week for the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, you will be deemed to have experienced a Termination Event.  
           (b) 
    Deadline for Exercise  . 
              (i) 
    If your Termination Event is by reason of death, Disability or Retirement, you are (or in the event of your death or Disability resulting in judicial appointment of a guardian ad litem, administrator or other legal representative, the executor or administrator of your estate, any person who shall have acquired the Option through bequest or inheritance or such guardian ad litem, administrator or other legal representative is) entitled to exercise the Option per the terms contained herein within one year after you experience said Termination Event. 
              (ii) 
    Subject to Section 7(d), if your Termination Event is for a reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, you are entitled to exercise the Option per the terms contained herein within 90 days after you experience said Termination Event. 
              (iii)  
    If you die within the exercise periods described in subsections (i) and (ii) above, your executor, the administrator of your estate, or your beneficiary may exercise the Option within one year after your death. 
              (c)    
    Expiration  . Notwithstanding any provision contained in this Section 7 to the contrary, in no event may the Option be exercised to any extent by anyone after the Expiration Date set forth in the Award Memorandum. 
              (d)    
    For Cause Termination Event  . If your employment is terminated for Cause (a    For Cause Termination Event   ), the Option, whether or not vested, shall terminate immediately. For the sake of clarity, in the event that you experience a For Cause Termination Event, there shall be no accelerated vesting under Section 7(a). 
              (e)  
    Change of Control  . If a Change of Control of the Company occurs, the provisions of Section 17(c) of the Plan shall apply to the Option. If the successor or purchaser in the Change of Control has assumed the Company s obligations with respect to the Option or provided a substitute award as contemplated by Section 17(c)(i) of the Plan and, within 12 months following the occurrence of the Change of Control, you are terminated without Cause or you terminate your employment for Good Reason (as hereinafter defined), the Option or such substitute award shall become fully vested and exercisable with respect to all Option Shares covered by the Option as of the time immediately prior to such termination of employment and, notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Option shall become exercisable by you for 90 days following such termination (or such longer period as is otherwise specified in Section 7(b)), and the provisions of Section 5 shall immediately cease to apply. 
        Good Reason    means your suffering any of the following events without your consent: (x) a significant or material lessening of your responsibilities; (y) a reduction in your annual base salary or a material reduction in the level of incentive compensation for which you have been eligible during the two years immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control and/or a material adverse change in the conditions governing receipt of such incentive compensation from those that prevailed prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control; or (z) the Company requiring you to be based anywhere other than within 50 miles of your place of employment at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control, except for reasonably required travel to an extent substantially consistent with your business travel obligations.  
           (f)    
    Service as Director  . For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director. 
     
   5 

(g) 
    No Further Obligation  .  The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Agreement if the Option ceases to become exercisable as provided herein.  
              8.  
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Option Shares to you as soon as practicable after you exercise any part of the Option and pay the Exercise Price Per Option Share and all related withholding taxes. If you die before the Company has distributed any portion of the Option Shares purchased upon exercise, the Company will issue the Option Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Option Shares will be issued in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it.  Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to the Option Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws, and/or (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) or any stock exchange upon which the Option Shares are listed.  The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Option Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions.  
              9.  
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Option Shares have been purchased upon exercise of any part of this Option, this Option and the Option Shares issuable upon exercise hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Option, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Option and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.  
              10.  
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Option Shares issued to you hereunder upon exercise and purchase may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Option Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Option Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Option Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the exercise of the Option as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience; and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.  
              11.  
    No Rights as Shareholder  .   Until you exercise any part of this Option, purchase Option Shares and the Option Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Option Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Option or the Option Shares subject hereto.  
              12.  
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.  

6 

13.  
    Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.  
              14. 
    Securities and Tax Representations  .    
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement, the exercise of the Option and any disposition of the Option Shares,and that upon the acquisition of any Option Shares, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement. 
              (b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences of the granting of the Option, the exercise of the Option, the purchase of Option Shares, and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Option Shares. You understand and agree that when you exercise the Option, and thereby realize gross income (if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such exercise, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such exercise unless the Option is an incentive stock option. Accordingly, at or prior to the time that you exercise the Option, you hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Option Shares equal in value to the total federal, state and local taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income in relation to the Option Shares or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld as a result of the exercise of the Option shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion. 
              15. 
    Market Stand-Off  .    The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any Option Shares acquired under this Option without the prior written consent of the Company.  Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company.  In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days. 
               (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability. 
              (b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Option and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto. 
              (c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan. 
     
   7 

(d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 
              (e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise. 
              (f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions. 
              (g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the administrative agent s website (  www.netbenefits.fidelity.com  ) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request. 
              (h) 
    During your lifetime, the Option may only be exercised by you or your legal representatives. 
              (i) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder. 
              (j) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind the Option and/or the Option Shares in certain circumstances.  
     By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.  
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your ability to exercise your Option. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate. 

8 

</EX-10.8>

<EX-10.10>
 6
 ex101012312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.10

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.10 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION AWARD MEMORANDUM       EMPLOYEE (EC RET) 

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME] [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Number of Shares Subject to Option: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES] 

Exercise Price Per Option Share: 
      
    [EXERCISE PRICE] 

Type of Option: 

Vesting Schedule: 
      
    [VESTING SCHEDULE] 

Expiration Date: 
      
    10 years after the Grant Date 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Stock Option Agreement. As a condition to your ability to exercise your Option, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.   
    
  Note  : Section 5(c) of the Stock Option Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions. 

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you an Option to purchase such number of shares of Company common stock (the    Option Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan. 
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern. 
           1. 
    Grant Date; Type of Option  .    The Option is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum.  If the Option is designated as a  non-qualified stock option  in the Award Memorandum, then the Option will not be treated by you or the Company as an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Code.  If the Option is designated as an  incentive stock option  in the Award Memorandum, then the Option is intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. 
              2. 
    Termination of Option  .  Your right to exercise the Option and to purchase the Option Shares shall expire and terminate in all events on the earliest of (a) the Expiration Date set forth in the Award Memorandum or (b) the date upon which exercise is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 7 of this Agreement or (c) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.   
              3. 
    Exercise Price  .  The purchase price to be paid upon the exercise of the Option will be the Exercise Price Per Option Share set forth in the Award Memorandum. 
              4. 
    Vesting; Provisions Relating to Exercise  .    Once you become entitled to exercise any part of the Option (and to purchase Option Shares) pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Award Memorandum, that right will continue until the date on which the Option expires and terminates.  The right to purchase Option Shares under the Option is cumulative, so that if the full number of Option Shares is not purchased in a single transaction, the balance may be purchased at any time or from time to time thereafter during the term of the Option. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may at any time accelerate the time at which the Option becomes exercisable by you with respect to any Option Shares. The Company may cancel, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid or deferred part of the Option at any time if you are not in compliance with all applicable provisions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.   
              5. 
    Confidential Information, Non-Competition, and Related Covenants  . 
              (a) 
    Definitions. 
              (i) 
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns. 
              (ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise  
     
   1 

becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained.   
           (iii) 
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv.  For purposes of this Section 5, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so. 
              (iv) 
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service. 
              (v) 
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business.   
              (vi) 
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship. 
              (vii) 
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv. 
              (viii) 
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.   
              (b) 
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv.  You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv.  Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof.  You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company: 
              (i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv.  You  
     
   2 

agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 
           (ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv.  You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation.  You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation.   
               (A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 
              (B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 
     You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 
           (c) 
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 
              (i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv.   
              (ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv (or, in the case of Retirement, for a period of 12 months following the later of (x) the date of the last restricted stock unit vesting event following Retirement or (y) the latest date upon which you are entitled to exercise an option following Retirement (in either case, assuming no Post-Retirement Violation)), you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either  
     
   3 

negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law.   
  No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended. 
           (d) 
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 5 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 5 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law.  In the event of a breach of this Section 5, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances.  The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 5, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 5(c) during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment.  You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement. 
              (e) 
    You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 5, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement.   
              (f) 
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 
              (g) 
    YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 5 AND SECTION 7(b)(ix) AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 
              6. 
    Exercise of Option  .    To exercise the Option, you must complete the transaction through our administrative agent s website at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com or call its toll free number at (800) 544-9354, specifying the number of Option Shares being purchased as a result of such exercise, and make payment of the full Exercise Price for the Option Shares being purchased.  In no event may a fraction of a share be exercised or acquired.  You must also pay any taxes or other amounts required to be withheld as provided in Section 9 of this Agreement. 
              7. 
    Termination of Employment  . 
              (a) 
    Standard Vesting  . If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason other than Cause (a    Termination Event   ), the Option may be exercised to the same extent that you were entitled to exercise the Option on the date of the Termination Event and had not previously done so. The remaining Option Shares that are not vested on such date shall become exercisable as follows:   
                    Reason for Termination Event 
    Unvested Option Shares that  
  Become Exercisable 
      Death or Disability 
    100% 
      Retirement 
    Continued Vesting as Described Below 
      Any other reason 
    0% 

4 

(b) 
    Continued Vesting  .   
              (i) 
       Retirement    means the cessation of service as an employee for any reason other than death, Disability or termination for Cause if: 
              (A) 
    (I) you are at least 50 years of age and your age plus years of service to the Company and its subsidiaries is equal to or greater than 70 (with at least 5 years of continuous service to the Company and its subsidiaries immediately prior to such cessation of service) or (II) you are at least 55 years of age with at least 5 years of continuous service to the Company and its subsidiaries immediately prior to such cessation of service; and 
              (B) 
    you have provided for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor, including by:  (I) providing notice to the Company s Chief Executive Officer (or, if you are the Chief Executive Officer, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors) of your consideration of Retirement sufficiently in advance of your proposed date of Retirement; and (II) assisting with the identification and selection of, and transition of your duties to, a successor ((I) and (II) being referred to herein collectively as the    Specified Transition Requirements   ). 
     If you meet the criteria in paragraph (A) above and you satisfy the Specified Transition Requirements, your cessation of service will be deemed to be a qualifying Retirement; provided that, the Compensation Committee may determine, within 30 days after your cessation of service, that you failed to provide for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor.  By way of example only, this could result from providing too short of notice or not providing an adequate amount of transition assistance. 
           (ii) 
    After your Retirement, the unvested portion of the Option shall continue to vest on the normal vesting dates indicated in the Award Memorandum as if you had not ceased to be an employee. 
              (iii) 
    Notwithstanding the foregoing: 
              (A) 
    If you receive written notification from the Compensation Committee that you failed to provide for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor, then any portion of the Option that is unvested as of the date of such notification shall terminate as of such date. 
              (B) 
    If at any time following your Retirement, one of the following events occurs (a    Post-Retirement Violation   ), then any portion of the Option that is unvested as of the date of such Post-Retirement Violation shall terminate as of such date: (I) you commence employment of any kind (other than board or public service, work for a not-for-profit or de minimis for-profit employment); (II) you commence work of any kind for a Competitor, including as an employee, board member, consultant or otherwise; or (III) you violate any post-employment covenant applicable to you under any agreement in effect with, or policy of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including without limitation those set forth in Section 5. 
              (iv) 
    If, while this Award is outstanding, you commence employment or other work of any kind following your Retirement, you are required to promptly provide written notice to the Company of the name of your employer and the nature of your position or other work.   
              (v) 
    If you receive any benefit under this Award after the date of a Post-Retirement Violation, then you will be obligated to repay to the Company the value of such benefit (with such value to be determined by the Company, which may include a reasonable rate of interest) promptly following your receipt of notice of such repayment obligation from the Company.     
     
   5 

(vi) 
    All determinations regarding whether you have engaged in a Post-Retirement Violation shall be made by the Compensation Committee. 
              (vii) 
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you die after Retirement and prior to the date the Option vests in full (and provided that a Post-Retirement Violation has not occurred), then the Option shall become fully vested as of the date of your death and shall remain exercisable in accordance with subsection (c)(ii) below. 
              (viii) 
    If you are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per calendar week for the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, you will be deemed to have experienced a Termination Event. 
              (ix) 
    Without limiting any other provision of this Agreement, if a Post-Retirement Violation described in (iii)(B)(II) or (III) above occurs following Retirement, the Company shall be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement.  
              (c) 
    Deadline for Exercise  . 
              (i) 
    If your Termination Event is by reason of death or Disability, then you are (or in the event of your death or Disability resulting in judicial appointment of a guardian ad litem, administrator or other legal representative, the executor or administrator of your estate, any person who shall have acquired the Option through bequest or inheritance or such guardian ad litem, administrator or other legal representative is) entitled to exercise the Option per the terms contained herein within one year after you experience said Termination Event. 
              (ii) 
    If your Termination Event is by reason of your Retirement, then you are entitled to exercise the Option to the extent vested and per the terms contained herein until the earlier of (A) 5 years following your Termination Event or (B) the Expiration Date set forth in the Award Memorandum; provided that, if you either receive notice under subsection (b)(iii)(A) above that you failed to provide for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor or a Post-Retirement Violation occurs, then, notwithstanding the foregoing, you will be entitled to exercise the Option to the extent vested as of the date of such notice or Post-Retirement Violation, as the case may be, and per the terms contained herein only for the period described in subsection (iii) below (if any time period is remaining) unless the Compensation Committee expressly permits such exercise for a longer period.  If the exercise period described in subsection (iii) below has expired as of the date of the Post-Retirement Violation, then this Option shall immediately terminate on such date.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if such Post-Retirement Violation consists solely of the action described in subsection (b)(iii)(B)(I) above, then you will be entitled to exercise the Option to the extent vested as of the date of such Post-Retirement Violation and per the terms contained herein for 90 days following the date of such Post-Retirement Violation, but not beyond the Expiration Date.  
              (iii) 
    Subject to Section 7(e), if your Termination Event is for a reason other than death, Disability or Retirement, you are entitled to exercise the Option per the terms contained herein within 90 days after you experience said Termination Event.   
              (iv) 
    If you die within the exercise periods described in subsections (i), (ii) or (iii) above, your executor, the administrator of your estate, or your beneficiary may exercise the Option within one year after your death.   
              (d) 
    Expiration  . Notwithstanding any provision contained in this Section 7 to the contrary, in no event may the Option be exercised to any extent by anyone after the Expiration Date set forth in the Award Memorandum. 
     
   6 

(e) 
    For Cause Termination Event  . If your employment is terminated for Cause (a    For Cause Termination Event   ), the Option, whether or not vested, shall terminate immediately. For the sake of clarity, in the event that you experience a For Cause Termination Event, there shall be no accelerated or continued vesting under Section 7(a) or (b). 
              (f) 
    Change of Control  .  If a Change of Control of the Company occurs, the provisions of Section 17(c) of the Plan shall apply to the Option. If the successor or purchaser in the Change of Control has assumed the Company s obligations with respect to the Option or provided a substitute award as contemplated by Section 17(c)(i) of the Plan and, within 12 months following the occurrence of the Change of Control, you are terminated without Cause or you terminate your employment for Good Reason (as hereinafter defined), the Option or such substitute award shall become fully vested and exercisable with respect to all Option Shares covered by the Option as of the time immediately prior to such termination of employment and, notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Option shall become exercisable by you for 90 days following such termination (or such longer period as is otherwise specified in Section 7(c)), and the provisions of Section 5 shall immediately cease to apply. 
        Good Reason    means your suffering any of the following events without your consent: (x) a significant or material lessening of your responsibilities; (y) a reduction in your annual base salary or a material reduction in the level of incentive compensation for which you have been eligible during the two years immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control and/or a material adverse change in the conditions governing receipt of such incentive compensation from those that prevailed prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control; or (z) the Company requiring you to be based anywhere other than within 50 miles of your place of employment at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control, except for reasonably required travel to an extent substantially consistent with your business travel obligations. 
  If the Change of Control of the Company occurs after your Retirement and prior to the date this Option has become vested in full (and prior to the occurrence of a Post-Retirement Violation), and if the successor or purchaser in the Change of Control does not either assume the Company s obligations with respect to the Option or provide a substitute award, then this Option shall vest in full immediately prior to the date of such Change of Control.  
           (g) 
    Service as Director  . For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director.   
              (h) 
    No Further Obligation  . The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Agreement if the Option ceases to become exercisable as provided herein. 
              8. 
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Option Shares to you as soon as practicable after you exercise any part of the Option and pay the Exercise Price Per Option Share and all related withholding taxes. If you die before the Company has distributed any portion of the Option Shares purchased upon exercise, the Company will issue the Option Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Option Shares will be issued in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it. Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to the Option Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws, and/or (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) or any stock exchange upon which the Option Shares are listed. The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Option Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions.   
     
   7 

9. 
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Option Shares have been purchased upon exercise of any part of this Option, this Option and the Option Shares issuable upon exercise hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Option, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Option and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.     
              10. 
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Option Shares issued to you hereunder upon exercise and purchase may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Option Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Option Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Option Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the exercise of the Option as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience; and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.   
              11. 
    No Rights as Shareholder  . Until you exercise any part of this Option, purchase Option Shares and the Option Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Option Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Option or the Option Shares subject hereto.   
              12. 
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.   
              13. 
    Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.   
              14. 
    Securities and Tax Representations  .  
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement, the exercise of the Option and any disposition of the Option Shares, and that upon the acquisition of any Option Shares, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement.   
              (b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences of the granting of the Option, the exercise of the Option, the purchase of Option Shares, and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Option Shares. You understand and agree that when you exercise the Option, and thereby realize gross income  
     
   8 

(if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such exercise, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such exercise unless the Option is an incentive stock option. Accordingly, at or prior to the time that you exercise the Option, you hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Option Shares equal in value to the total federal, state and local taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income in relation to the Option Shares or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld as a result of the exercise of the Option shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion.   
           15. 
    Market Stand-Off  . The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any Option Shares acquired under this Option without the prior written consent of the Company. Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company. In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.   
               (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability.   
              (b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Option and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto.   
              (c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan.   
              (d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.   
              (e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise.   
              (f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions.   
              (g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the administrative agent s website (www.netbenefits.fidelity.com) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request.   
              (h) 
    During your lifetime, the Option may only be exercised by you or your legal representatives.   
     
   9 

(i) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder.   
              (j) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind the Option and/or the Option Shares in certain circumstances.   
     By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.   
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your ability to exercise your Option. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate. 
  
   10 

</EX-10.10>

<EX-10.11>
 7
 ex101112312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.11

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.11 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN 
  STOCK OPTION AWARD MEMORANDUM       EMPLOYEE (EC NO RET) 

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME] [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Number of Shares Subject to Option: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES] 

Exercise Price Per Option Share: 
      
    [EXERCISE PRICE] 

Type of Option: 

Vesting Schedule: 
      
    [VESTING SCHEDULE] 

Expiration Date: 
      
    10 years after the Grant Date 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Stock Option Agreement. As a condition to your ability to exercise your Option, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.   
    
  Note  : Section 5(c) of the Stock Option Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions. 

STOCK OPTION AGREEMENT 
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you an Option to purchase such number of shares of Company common stock (the    Option Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan. 
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern. 
           1. 
    Grant Date; Type of Option  .    The Option is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum.  If the Option is designated as a  non-qualified stock option  in the Award Memorandum, then the Option will not be treated by you or the Company as an incentive stock option as defined in Section 422 of the Code.  If the Option is designated as an  incentive stock option  in the Award Memorandum, then the Option is intended to satisfy the requirements of Section 422 of the Code. 
              2. 
    Termination of Option  .  Your right to exercise the Option and to purchase the Option Shares shall expire and terminate in all events on the earliest of (a) the Expiration Date set forth in the Award Memorandum or (b) the date upon which exercise is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 7 of this Agreement or (c) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.   
              3. 
    Exercise Price  .  The purchase price to be paid upon the exercise of the Option will be the Exercise Price Per Option Share set forth in the Award Memorandum. 
              4. 
    Vesting; Provisions Relating to Exercise  .    Once you become entitled to exercise any part of the Option (and to purchase Option Shares) pursuant to the vesting schedule set forth in the Award Memorandum, that right will continue until the date on which the Option expires and terminates.  The right to purchase Option Shares under the Option is cumulative, so that if the full number of Option Shares is not purchased in a single transaction, the balance may be purchased at any time or from time to time thereafter during the term of the Option. The Administrator, in its sole discretion, may at any time accelerate the time at which the Option becomes exercisable by you with respect to any Option Shares. The Company may cancel, rescind, suspend, withhold or otherwise limit or restrict any unexpired, unpaid or deferred part of the Option at any time if you are not in compliance with all applicable provisions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.   
              5. 
    Confidential Information, Non-Competition, and Related Covenants  . 
              (a) 
    Definitions. 
              (i) 
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns. 
              (ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is  
     
   1 

disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained.   
           (iii) 
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv.  For purposes of this Section 5, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so. 
              (iv) 
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service. 
              (v) 
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business.   
              (vi) 
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship. 
              (vii) 
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv. 
              (viii) 
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.   
              (b) 
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv.  You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv.  Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof.  You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company: 
     
   2 

(i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv.  You agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 
              (ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv.  You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation.  You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation.   
               (A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 
              (B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 
     You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 
           (c) 
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 
              (i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv.   
              (ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding  
     
   3 

the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law.   
  No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended. 
           (d) 
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 5 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 5 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law.  In the event of a breach of this Section 5, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances.  The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 5, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 5(c) during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment.  You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement. 
              (e) 
    You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 5, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement.   
              (f) 
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 
              (g) 
    YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 5 AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 
              6. 
    Exercise of Option  .    To exercise the Option, you must complete the transaction through our administrative agent s website at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com or call its toll free number at (800) 544-9354, specifying the number of Option Shares being purchased as a result of such exercise, and make payment of the full Exercise Price for the Option Shares being purchased.  In no event may a fraction of a share be exercised or acquired.  You must also pay any taxes or other amounts required to be withheld as provided in Section 9 of this Agreement. 
              7. 
    Termination of Employment  . 
              (a) 
    Vesting  . If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason other than Cause (a    Termination Event   ), the Option may be exercised to the same extent that you were entitled to exercise the Option on the date of the Termination Event and had not previously done so. The remaining Option Shares that are not vested on such date shall become exercisable as follows:   
                      
    Unvested Option Shares that 
      Reason for Termination Event 
    Become Exercisable 
      Death or Disability 
    100% 
      Any other reason 
    0% 

4 

(b) 
    Deadline for Exercise  . 
              (i) 
    If your Termination Event is by reason of death or Disability, then you are (or in the event of your death or Disability resulting in judicial appointment of a guardian ad litem, administrator or other legal representative, the executor or administrator of your estate, any person who shall have acquired the Option through bequest or inheritance or such guardian ad litem, administrator or other legal representative is) entitled to exercise the Option per the terms contained herein within one year after you experience said Termination Event. 
              (ii) 
    Subject to Section 7(d), if your Termination Event is for a reason other than death or Disability, you are entitled to exercise the Option per the terms contained herein within 90 days after you experience said Termination Event.   
              (iii) 
    If you die within the exercise periods described in subsections (i) or (ii) above, your executor, the administrator of your estate, or your beneficiary may exercise the Option within one year after your death.   
              (c) 
    Expiration  . Notwithstanding any provision contained in this Section 7 to the contrary, in no event may the Option be exercised to any extent by anyone after the Expiration Date set forth in the Award Memorandum. 
              (d) 
    For Cause Termination Event  . If your employment is terminated for Cause (a    For Cause Termination Event   ), the Option, whether or not vested, shall terminate immediately. For the sake of clarity, in the event that you experience a For Cause Termination Event, there shall be no accelerated vesting under Section 7(a). 
              (e) 
    Change of Control  .  If a Change of Control of the Company occurs, the provisions of Section 17(c) of the Plan shall apply to the Option. If the successor or purchaser in the Change of Control has assumed the Company s obligations with respect to the Option or provided a substitute award as contemplated by Section 17(c)(i) of the Plan and, within 12 months following the occurrence of the Change of Control, you are terminated without Cause or you terminate your employment for Good Reason (as hereinafter defined), the Option or such substitute award shall become fully vested and exercisable with respect to all Option Shares covered by the Option as of the time immediately prior to such termination of employment and, notwithstanding any other provision hereof, the Option shall become exercisable by you for 90 days following such termination (or such longer period as is otherwise specified in Section 7(b)), and the provisions of Section 5 shall immediately cease to apply. 
        Good Reason    means your suffering any of the following events without your consent: (x) a significant or material lessening of your responsibilities; (y) a reduction in your annual base salary or a material reduction in the level of incentive compensation for which you have been eligible during the two years immediately prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control and/or a material adverse change in the conditions governing receipt of such incentive compensation from those that prevailed prior to the occurrence of the Change of Control; or (z) the Company requiring you to be based anywhere other than within 50 miles of your place of employment at the time of the occurrence of the Change of Control, except for reasonably required travel to an extent substantially consistent with your business travel obligations. 
           (f) 
    Service as Director  . For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director.   
              (g) 
    No Further Obligation  . The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Agreement if the Option ceases to become exercisable as provided herein. 
     
   5 

8. 
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Option Shares to you as soon as practicable after you exercise any part of the Option and pay the Exercise Price Per Option Share and all related withholding taxes. If you die before the Company has distributed any portion of the Option Shares purchased upon exercise, the Company will issue the Option Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Option Shares will be issued in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it. Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to the Option Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws, and/or (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) or any stock exchange upon which the Option Shares are listed. The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Option Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions.   
              9. 
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Option Shares have been purchased upon exercise of any part of this Option, this Option and the Option Shares issuable upon exercise hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Option, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Option and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.     
              10. 
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Option Shares issued to you hereunder upon exercise and purchase may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Option Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Option Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Option Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the exercise of the Option as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience; and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.   
              11. 
    No Rights as Shareholder  . Until you exercise any part of this Option, purchase Option Shares and the Option Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Option Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Option or the Option Shares subject hereto.   
              12. 
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.   
              13. 
    Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.   
     
   6 

14. 
    Securities and Tax Representations  .  
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement, the exercise of the Option and any disposition of the Option Shares, and that upon the acquisition of any Option Shares, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement.   
              (b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences of the granting of the Option, the exercise of the Option, the purchase of Option Shares, and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Option Shares. You understand and agree that when you exercise the Option, and thereby realize gross income (if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such exercise, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such exercise unless the Option is an incentive stock option. Accordingly, at or prior to the time that you exercise the Option, you hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Option Shares equal in value to the total federal, state and local taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income in relation to the Option Shares or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld as a result of the exercise of the Option shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion.   
              15. 
    Market Stand-Off  . The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any Option Shares acquired under this Option without the prior written consent of the Company. Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company. In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.   
               (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability.   
              (b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Option and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto.   
              (c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan.   
              (d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby.   
     
   7 

(e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise.   
              (f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions.   
              (g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the administrative agent s website (www.netbenefits.fidelity.com) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request.   
              (h) 
    During your lifetime, the Option may only be exercised by you or your legal representatives.   
              (i) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder.   
              (j) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind the Option and/or the Option Shares in certain circumstances.   
     By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.   
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your ability to exercise your Option. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate. 
  
   8 

</EX-10.11>

<EX-10.13>
 8
 ex101312312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.13

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.13 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD MEMORANDUM    
  EMPLOYEE        

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME]     [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Target Units: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES AT TARGET] 

Performance Period: 
      
    [PERIOD] 

Performance Formula: 
      
    [PERFORMANCE FORMULA] 

Performance Goal(s): 
      
    [PERFORMANCE GOALS] 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Performance Share Unit Agreement. As a condition to your receipt of Shares, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.  
  Note  : Section 4(c) of the Performance Share Unit Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions.  

PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT  
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you Performance Share Units (the    Award   ) entitling you to receive such number of shares of Company common stock (the    Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.  
    
                 1. 
    Grant Date  .   The Award is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum.  

2. 
    Vesting  .   This Award will vest (if at all) as specified in the Award Memorandum on the date the Compensation Committee certifies the level of  achievement of the Performance Goal(s), provided you remain in employment through the last day of the Performance Period.  Subject to any deferral election then in effect, the Shares subject to this Award will be issued as indicated in this Agreement.  This Award also may continue to vest following your Retirement (as defined below), death or Disability as described in Section 5(a). 

3. 
    Termination of Award  . Your Award (except for the provisions of Section 4) shall terminate in all events on the earliest of (a) the date upon which vesting is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement, (b) the date the Shares due hereunder have been issued to you, or (c) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement. 

4. 
    Confidential Information; Non-Competition; Related Covenants  .    

(a) 
    Definitions. 

(i) 
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns.  

(ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained.  

1 

(iii) 
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv. For purposes of this Section 4, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so.  

(iv) 
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service.  

(v) 
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business.  

(vi) 
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship.  

(vii) 
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(viii) 
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(b) 
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv. You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof. You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company: 

(i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv. You agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 

2 

(ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation. You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or, where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation. 

(A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 

(B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 

You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 

(c) 
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 

(i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv. 

(ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv (the    Restrictive Period   ), you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law.  

No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be  
  
   3 

construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended.  
                     
    (d) 
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 4 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 4 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law. In the event of a breach of this Section 4, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances. The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 4, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 4(c) during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment. You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement. 

(e) 
    You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 4, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 

(f) 
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 

(g) 
    YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 4 AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 

5. 
    Termination of Employment  .    

(a) 
    
    Vesting  .  If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason (a    Termination Event   ) prior to the last day of the Performance Period, then the Award shall terminate on the date on which such Termination Event occurs;   provided that  , if the reason for your Termination Event is: 
    
  (i)    Disability, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award, if any, shall be determined after the end of the Performance Period  as if you had not terminated employment, but multiplied times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed whole calendar months of your employment during the Performance Period and the denominator of which is [the total number of calendar months in the Performance Period];   
    
  (ii)    Death, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award, if any, shall be determined after the end of the Performance Period as if you had not terminated employment, but multiplied times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed whole calendar months of your employment during the Performance Period and the denominator of which is [the total number of calendar months in the Performance Period], and such Shares shall be issued at that time to your designated beneficiary or, if none, to your estate; or 
    
  (iii)    Retirement, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award, if any, shall be determined after the end of the Performance Period as if you had not terminated employment, but multiplied times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed whole calendar months of your employment during the Performance Period and the denominator of which is [the total number of calendar months in the Performance Period]. If you die after Retirement, then your designated beneficiary, or if none, your estate, shall become entitled to receive the number of Shares you would have received, if any, pursuant to this paragraph. 

4 

If you breach Section 4 of this Agreement, you will forfeit this Award and no Shares will be issuable under this Award.  In addition, if you engage in conduct after the end of the Restrictive Period in Section 4 but prior to the payment of Shares following the end of the Performance Period which, if engaged in during the Restrictive Period would have constituted a breach of Section 4, then you will forfeit this Award and no Shares will be issuable under this Award.  
    
  For purposes of this Section 5,    Retirement    means the cessation of service as an employee after the first anniversary of the first day of the Performance Period for any reason other than death, Disability or termination for Cause if (A) you are at least 60 years of age and your age plus years of service to the Company and its subsidiaries is equal to or greater than 70 or (B) you are at least 65 years of age. 
    
  If you are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per calendar week for the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, you will be deemed to have experienced a Termination Event. 

(b) 
    Change of Control  . If a Change of Control of the Company occurs prior to the end of the Performance Period, then as of the date of the Change of Control, you will be paid cash in an amount equal to the fair market value (as of the date of the Change of Control) of such number of Shares as is determined by multiplying the number of Target Units set forth in the Award Memorandum times [         ]%.  Thereafter, the Award shall terminate. 

(c) 
    Service as Director  . For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director.  

(d) 
    Termination for Cause  .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if you are terminated from employment by the Company for Cause, then this Award will forfeit immediately as of the date of such termination.   

(e) 
    No Further Obligation  . The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Award if the Award terminates as provided herein.  

6.  
    Deferral of Performance Share Units  . If you are eligible to, and properly elect to, defer delivery of all or part of the Shares otherwise issuable under this Award, such deferral will be governed by the Performance Share Unit Deferral Election Form executed by you separately from this Agreement.  
              7.  
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Shares to you as soon as practicable after the Award vests (pursuant to the terms hereof) with respect to such Shares, or, if a deferral election was made, at the time specified in the Deferral Election Form. If you die before the Company has distributed the Shares due with respect to the vested Performance Share Units, the Company will issue the Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Shares will be issued and delivered in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it. Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award or the Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws, and/or (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) of any stock exchange upon which the Shares are listed.  The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions. 
              8.  
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Shares have been issued under this Award, this Award and the Shares issuable hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Award, or of any  
     
   5 

right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Award and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.  
           9.  
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Shares issued to you hereunder may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the Award or the payment event specified in a deferral election as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience (provided that any such period shall be in compliance with Code Section 409A); and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.  
              10.  
    Dividends; No Rights as Shareholder  .   If the Company declares a cash dividend and the dividend record date occurs prior to the date the Award vests, you will be credited with an additional number of Target Units on the date the cash dividends are paid to the Company shareholders equal to (a) the amount of cash dividends payable with respect to a number of shares of stock equal to your Target Units divided by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the dividend is paid.   Until this Award vests and the Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or, except as provided in this Section 10, the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Award or the Shares subject hereto.   
              11.  
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.  
     12.   Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.  
           13.  
    Securities and Tax Representations  .    
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement and any disposition of Shares and that upon the acquisition of any Shares subject to this Award, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement. 
              (b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences associated with the granting of the Award, the vesting of the Award, the deferral of all or a portion of the Shares otherwise issuable upon vesting of the Award,  
     
   6 

and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Shares. You understand and agree that when this Award vests and Shares are issued, and you thereby realize gross income (if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such vesting or issuance, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such vesting.  You also understand and agree that the Company may be required to withhold certain payroll taxes in connection with your Retirement or your termination due to Disability prior to the issuance of Shares. You hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Shares equal in value to the federal, state and local payroll and income taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income or wages in relation to the Award or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts, which may include deduction of such taxes from other wages owed to you by the Company or its subsidiaries. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion.   
           14.  
    Market Stand-Off  .  The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any Shares acquired under this Award without the prior written consent of the Company.  Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company.  In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.   
                         
    (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability. 

(b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum, the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form, if any, contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Award and the Shares and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto. 

(c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan. 

(d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 

(e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise. 

(f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions. 

(g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the Company s administrative agent s website in the  forms library  (www.netbenefits.fidelity.com) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request. 

7 

(h) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder. 

(i) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind this Award and/or the Shares in certain circumstances. 

By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.  
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your receipt of Shares. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate. 

8 

</EX-10.13>

<EX-10.14>
 9
 ex101412312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.14

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.14 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD MEMORANDUM    
  EMPLOYEE (EC RET)        

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME]     [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Target Units: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES AT TARGET] 

Performance Period: 
      
    [PERIOD] 

Performance Formula: 
      
    [PERFORMANCE FORMULA] 

Performance Goal(s): 
      
    [PERFORMANCE GOALS] 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Performance Share Unit Agreement. As a condition to your receipt of Shares, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.  
  Note  : Section 4(c) of the Performance Share Unit Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions.     

PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT  
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you Performance Share Units (the    Award   ) entitling you to receive such number of shares of Company common stock (the    Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.  
                 1. 
    Grant Date  .   The Award is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum.  

2. 
    Vesting  .   This Award will vest (if at all) as specified in the Award Memorandum on the date the Compensation Committee certifies the level of  achievement of the Performance Goal(s), provided you remain in employment through the last day of the Performance Period.  Subject to any deferral election then in effect, the Shares subject to this Award will be issued as indicated in this Agreement.  This Award also may continue to vest following your Retirement (as defined below), death or Disability as described in Section 5(a). 

3. 
    Termination of Award  . Your Award (except for the provisions of Section 4) shall terminate in all events on the earliest of (a) the date upon which vesting is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement, (b) the date the Shares due hereunder have been issued to you, or (c) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement. 

4. 
    Confidential Information; Non-Competition; Related Covenants  .    

(a) 
    Definitions. 

(i) 
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns.  

(ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained.  

1 

(iii) 
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv. For purposes of this Section 4, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so.  

(iv) 
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service.  

(v) 
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business.  

(vi) 
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship.  

(vii) 
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(viii) 
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(b) 
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv. You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof. You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company: 

(i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv. You agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 

2 

(ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation. You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or, where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation. 

(A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 

(B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 

You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 

(c) 
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 

(i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv. 

(ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv (or, in the case of Retirement, from the date of your termination until 12 months after the latest of (x) the date of the last restricted stock unit vesting event following Retirement or (y) the latest date upon which you are entitled to exercise any stock option following Retirement or (z) the end date of the last Performance Period ending after Retirement under performance share unit awards), you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law. 

3 

No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended.  
                     
    (d) 
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 4 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 4 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law. In the event of a breach of this Section 4, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances. The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 4, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 4(c) during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment. You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement. 

(e) 
    You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 4, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 

(f) 
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 

(g) 
    YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 4 AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 

5. 
    Termination of Employment  .    

(a) 
    
    Vesting  .  If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason (a    Termination Event   ) prior to the last day of the Performance Period, then the Award shall terminate on the date on which such Termination Event occurs;   provided that  , if the reason for your Termination Event is: 
    
  (i)    Disability, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award, if any, shall be determined after the end of the Performance Period  as if you had not terminated employment, but multiplied times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed whole calendar months of your employment during the Performance Period and the denominator of which is [the total number of calendar months in the Performance Period];   
    
  (ii)    Death, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award, if any, shall be determined after the end of the Performance Period as if you had not terminated employment, but multiplied times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed whole calendar months of your employment during the Performance Period and the denominator of which is [the total number of calendar months in the Performance Period], and such Shares shall be issued at that time to your designated beneficiary or, if none, to your estate; or 

4 

(iii)    Retirement, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award, if any, shall be determined after the end of the Performance Period as if you had not terminated employment.  Notwithstanding the foregoing: 
    
  (A)   If you receive written notification from the Compensation Committee that you failed to provide for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor, then any portion of the Award that is unvested as of the date of such notification shall terminate as of such date. 
    
  (B)    If, at any time following your Retirement, one of the following events occurs (a    Post-Retirement Violation   ), then any portion of the Award that is unvested as of the date of such Post-Retirement Violation shall terminate as of the date such event occurs:  (I) you commence employment of any kind (other than board or public service, work for a not-for-profit or de minimis for-profit employment); (II) you commence work of any kind for a Competitor, including as an employee, board member, consultant or otherwise; or (III) you violate any post-employment covenant applicable to you under any agreement in effect with, or policy of, the Company or any of its subsidiaries, including without limitation those set forth in Section 4.  
    
  (C)   If, while this Award is outstanding, you commence employment or other work of any kind following your Retirement, you are required to promptly provide written notice to the Company of the name of your employer and the nature of your proposed position or other work.   
    
  (D)   If you receive any benefit under this Award after the date of a Post-Retirement Violation, then you will be obligated to repay to the Company the value of such benefit (with such value to be determined by the Company, which may include a reasonable rate of interest) promptly following your receipt of notice of such repayment obligation from the Company.     
    
  (E)   All determinations regarding whether you have engaged in a Post-Retirement Violation shall be made by the Compensation Committee.   
    
  (F)   Without limiting any other provision of this Agreement, if a Post-Retirement Violation described in (iii)(B)(II) or (III) above occurs following Retirement, the Company shall be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 
    
  If you die after Retirement and prior to the date that this Award vests (and provided that a Post-Retirement Violation has not occurred), then your designated beneficiary, or if none, your estate, shall become entitled to receive the number of Shares you would have received, if any, pursuant to this paragraph (iii). 
    
  If you are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per calendar week for the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, you will be deemed to have experienced a Termination Event. 
        
    (b) 
    
    Retirement  .   For purposes of this Section 5,    Retirement    means the cessation of service as an employee after the first anniversary of the first day of the Performance Period, for any reason other than death, Disability or termination for Cause, if:     
  (i)   (A) you are at least 50 years of age and your age plus years of service to the Company and its subsidiaries is equal to or greater than 70 (with at least 5 years of continuous service to the Company and its subsidiaries immediately prior to such cessation of service) or (B) you are at least 55 years of age with at least 5 years of continuous service to the Company and its subsidiaries immediately prior to such cessation of service; and 

5 

(ii)   you have provided for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor, including by:  (A) providing notice to the Company s Chief Executive Officer (or, if you are the Chief Executive Officer, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors) of your consideration of Retirement sufficiently in advance of your proposed date of Retirement; and (B) assisting with the identification and selection of, and transition of your duties to, a successor ((A) and (B) being referred to herein collectively as the    Specified Transition Requirements   ). 
    
  If you meet the criteria in paragraph (i) above and you satisfy the Specified Transition Requirements, your cessation of service will be deemed to be a qualifying Retirement; provided that, the Compensation Committee may determine, within 30 days after your cessation of service, that you failed to provide for an orderly transition of your duties to a successor.  By way of example only, this could result from providing too short of notice or not providing an adequate amount of transition assistance. 

(c) 
    Change of Control  . If a Change of Control of the Company occurs prior to the end of the Performance Period, then as of the date of the Change of Control, you will be paid cash in an amount equal to the fair market value (as of the date of the Change of Control) of such number of Shares as is determined by multiplying the number of Target Units set forth in the Award Memorandum times [         ]%.  Thereafter, the Award shall terminate.   

(d) 
    Service as Director  . For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director.  

(e) 
    Termination for Cause  .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if you are terminated from employment by the Company for Cause, then this Award will forfeit immediately as of the date of such termination.   

(f) 
    No Further Obligation  . The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Award if the Award terminates as provided herein.  

6.  
    Deferral of Performance Share Units  . If you are eligible to, and properly elect to, defer delivery of all or part of the Shares otherwise issuable under this Award, such deferral will be governed by the Performance Share Unit Deferral Election Form executed by you separately from this Agreement.  
              7.  
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Shares to you as soon as practicable after the Award vests (pursuant to the terms hereof) with respect to such Shares, or, if a deferral election was made, at the time specified in the Deferral Election Form. If you die before the Company has distributed the Shares due with respect to the vested Performance Share Units, the Company will issue the Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Shares will be issued and delivered in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it. Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award or the Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws, and/or (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) of any stock exchange upon which the Shares are listed.  The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions. 
              8.  
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Shares have been issued under this Award, this Award and the Shares issuable hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Award, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon  
     
   6 

any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Award and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.  
           9.  
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Shares issued to you hereunder may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the Award or the payment event specified in a deferral election as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience (provided that any such period shall be in compliance with Code Section 409A); and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.  
              10.  
    Dividends; No Rights as Shareholder  .   If the Company declares a cash dividend and the dividend record date occurs prior to the date the Award vests, you will be credited with an additional number of Target Units on the date the cash dividends are paid to the Company shareholders equal to (a) the amount of cash dividends payable with respect to a number of shares of stock equal to your Target Units divided by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the dividend is paid.   Until this Award vests and the Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or, except as provided in this Section 10, the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Award or the Shares subject hereto.   
              11.  
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.  
              12.  
    Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.  
              13.  
    Securities and Tax Representations  .    
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement and any disposition of Shares and that upon the acquisition of any Shares subject to this Award, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement. 
              (b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences associated with the granting of the Award, the vesting of the Award, the deferral of all or a portion of the Shares otherwise issuable upon vesting of the Award, and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Shares. You understand and agree that when  
     
   7 

this Award vests and Shares are issued, and you thereby realize gross income (if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such vesting or issuance, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such vesting.  You also understand and agree that the Company may be required to withhold certain payroll taxes in connection with your Retirement or your termination due to Disability prior to the issuance of Shares. You hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Shares equal in value to the federal, state and local payroll and income taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income or wages in relation to the Award or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts, which may include deduction of such taxes from other wages owed to you by the Company or its subsidiaries. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion.   
           14.  
    Market Stand-Off  .  The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any Shares acquired under this Award without the prior written consent of the Company.  Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company.  In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.   
                         
    (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability. 

(b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum, the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form, if any, contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Award and the Shares and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto. 

(c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan. 

(d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 

(e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise. 

(f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions. 

(g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the Company s administrative agent s website in the  forms library  (www.netbenefits.fidelity.com) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request. 

8 

(h) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder. 

(i) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind this Award and/or the Shares in certain circumstances. 

By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.  
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your receipt of Shares. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate. 

9 

</EX-10.14>

<EX-10.15>
 10
 ex101512312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.15

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.15 

FISERV, INC. 2007 OMNIBUS INCENTIVE PLAN  
  PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AWARD MEMORANDUM    
  EMPLOYEE (EC NO RET)        

Employee: 
      
    [FIRST NAME] [LAST NAME] 

Grant Date: 
      
    [GRANT DATE] 

Target Units: 
      
    [NUMBER OF SHARES AT TARGET] 

Performance Period: 
      
    [PERIOD] 

Performance Formula: 
      
    [PERFORMANCE FORMULA] 

Performance Goal(s): 
      
    [PERFORMANCE GOALS] 

Additional terms and conditions of your Award are included in the Performance Share Unit Agreement. As a condition to your receipt of Shares, you must log on to Fidelity s website at   www.netbenefits.fidelity.com   and accept the terms and conditions of this Award within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Award within such time at www.netbenefits.fidelity.com, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate.  
  Note  : Section 4(c) of the Performance Share Unit Agreement contains provisions that restrict your activities. These provisions apply to you and, by accepting this Award, you agree to be bound by these restrictions.     

PERFORMANCE SHARE UNIT AGREEMENT  
  Pursuant to the Fiserv, Inc. 2007 Omnibus Incentive Plan (the    Plan   ), Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the    Company   ), has granted you Performance Share Units (the    Award   ) entitling you to receive such number of shares of Company common stock (the    Shares   ) as set forth in the Award Memorandum on the terms and conditions set forth in this agreement (this    Agreement   ), the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan. Capitalized terms used in this Agreement and not defined herein shall have the meanings set forth in the Plan.  
  In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum and the terms of the Plan, the terms of the Plan shall govern. In the event of a conflict between the terms of this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the terms of this Agreement shall govern.  
    
                 1. 
    Grant Date  .   The Award is granted to you on the Grant Date set forth in the Award Memorandum.  

2. 
    Vesting  .   This Award will vest (if at all) as specified in the Award Memorandum on the date the Compensation Committee certifies the level of  achievement of the Performance Goal(s), provided you remain in employment through the last day of the Performance Period.  Subject to any deferral election then in effect, the Shares subject to this Award will be issued as indicated in this Agreement.  This Award also may continue to vest following your death or Disability as described in Section 5(a). 

3. 
    Termination of Award  . Your Award (except for the provisions of Section 4) shall terminate in all events on the earliest of (a) the date upon which vesting is no longer permitted pursuant to Section 5 of this Agreement, (b) the date the Shares due hereunder have been issued to you, or (c) your failure to accept the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement. 

4. 
    Confidential Information; Non-Competition; Related Covenants  .    

(a) 
    Definitions. 

(i) 
       Fiserv    means the Company, its direct and indirect subsidiaries, affiliated entities, successors, and assigns.  

(ii) 
       Confidential Information    means all trade secrets, Innovations (as defined below), confidential or proprietary business information and data, computer software, and database technologies or technological information, formulae, templates, algorithms, designs, process and systems information, processes, intellectual property rights, marketing plans, client lists and specifications, pricing and cost information and any other confidential information of Fiserv or its clients, vendors or subcontractors that relates to the business of Fiserv or to the business of any client, vendor or subcontractor of Fiserv or any other party with whom Fiserv agrees to hold information in confidence, whether patentable, copyrightable or protectable as a trade secret or not, except: (A) information that is, at the time of disclosure, in the public domain or that is subsequently published or otherwise becomes part of the public domain through no fault of yours; or (B) information that is disclosed by you under order of law or governmental regulation; provided, however, that you agree to notify the General Counsel of Fiserv upon receipt of any request for disclosure as soon as possible prior to any such disclosure so that appropriate safeguards may be maintained.  

1 

(iii) 
       Competing Product or Service    means any product or service that is sold in competition with, or is being developed and that will compete with, a product or service developed, manufactured, or sold by Fiserv. For purposes of this Section 4, Competing Products or Services as to you are limited to products and/or services with respect to which you participated in the development, planning, testing, sale, marketing or evaluation on behalf of Fiserv during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, or for which you supervised one or more Fiserv employees, units, divisions or departments in doing so. 

(iv) 
       Competitor    means an individual, business or any other entity or enterprise engaged or having publicly announced its intent to engage in the sale or marketing of any Competing Product or Service.  

(v) 
       Innovations    means all developments, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, software programs, databases, and trade secrets, whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets, that you, either by yourself or jointly with others, create, modify, develop, or implement during the period of your employment with Fiserv that relate in any way to Fiserv s business.  

(vi) 
       Moral Rights    means any rights to claim authorship of a work of authorship, to object to or prevent the modification of any such work of authorship, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any such work of authorship.  

(vii) 
       Client    means any person, association or entity: (A) for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv, during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(viii) 
       Prospective Client    means any client: (A) with which Fiserv was in active business discussions or negotiations at any time during any part of your employment with Fiserv, or after the termination of your employment, during any part of the 24 months preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv, in which you participated or for which you directly performed services or for which you supervised others in performing services with Fiserv; or (B) about which you have Confidential Information as a result of your employment with Fiserv.  

(b) 
    During your employment, Fiserv will provide you with Confidential Information relating to Fiserv, its business and clients, the disclosure or misuse of which would cause severe and irreparable harm to Fiserv. You agree that all Confidential Information is and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. Upon the termination of your employment for any reason, you shall immediately return to Fiserv all documents and materials that contain or constitute Confidential Information, in any form whatsoever, including but not limited to, all copies, abstracts, electronic versions, and summaries thereof. You further agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company: 

(i) 
    You will not disclose, use, copy or duplicate, or otherwise permit the use, disclosure, copying or duplication of any Confidential Information of Fiserv, other than in connection with the authorized activities conducted in the course of your employment with Fiserv. You agree to take all reasonable steps and precautions to prevent any unauthorized disclosure, use, copying or duplication of Confidential Information. 

2 

(ii) 
    All Innovations are and shall remain the sole and absolute property of Fiserv. You will provide all assistance requested by Fiserv, at its expense, in the preservation of its interest in any Innovations in any country, and hereby assign and agree to assign to Fiserv all rights, title and interest in and to all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights in any Innovation. You also assign and agree to assign to Fiserv, or, where applicable, to waive, which waiver shall inure to the benefit of Fiserv and its assigns, all Moral Rights in any Innovation. 

(A) 
    An individual shall not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (I) is made (x) in confidence to a Federal, State, or local government official, either directly or indirectly, or to an attorney and (y) solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law; or (II) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if such filing is made under seal. 

(B) 
    An individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by the Company for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the attorney of the individual and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual (I) files any document containing the trade secret under seal and (II) does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 

You understand that if you are found to have wrongfully misappropriated a trade secret, you may be liable to the Company for, among other things, exemplary damages and attorneys  fees. 

(c) 
    You agree that, without the written consent of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company or, in the case of the Chief Executive Officer of the Company, without the written approval of the Board of Directors of the Company, you shall not engage in any of the conduct described in subsections (i) or (ii), below, either directly or indirectly, or as an employee, contractor, consultant, partner, officer, director or stockholder, other than a stockholder of less than 5% of the equities of a publicly traded corporation, or in any other capacity for any person, firm, partnership or corporation: 

(i) 
    During the time of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv (except to the extent required by your employment with Fiserv); or (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv. 

(ii) 
    For a period of 12 months following the termination of your employment with Fiserv, you will not: (A) perform duties as or for a Competitor, Client or Prospective Client of Fiserv that are the same as or similar to the duties performed by you for Fiserv at any time during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; (B) participate in the inducement of or otherwise encourage Fiserv employees, clients, or vendors to currently and/or prospectively breach, modify, or terminate any agreement or relationship they have or had with Fiserv during any part of the 24 month period preceding the termination of your employment with Fiserv; or (C) participate voluntarily or provide assistance or information to any person or entity either negotiating with Fiserv involving a Competing Product or Service, or concerning a potential or existing business or legal dispute with Fiserv, including, but not limited to, litigation, except as may be required by law. 

No provision of these subsections (i) and (ii) shall apply to restrict your conduct, or trigger any reimbursement obligations under this Agreement, in any jurisdiction where such provision is, on its face, unenforceable and/or void as against public policy, unless the provision may be  
  
   3 

construed or deemed amended to be enforceable and compliant with public policy, in which case the provision will apply as construed or deemed amended.  
                     
    (d) 
    You acknowledge and agree that compliance with this Section 4 is necessary to protect the Company, and that a breach of any of this Section 4 will result in irreparable and continuing damage to the Company for which there will be no adequate remedy at law. In the event of a breach of this Section 4, or any part thereof, the Company, and its successors and assigns, shall be entitled to injunctive relief and to such other and further relief as is proper under the circumstances. The Company shall institute and prosecute proceedings in any Court of competent jurisdiction either in law or in equity to obtain damages for any such breach of this Section 4, or to enjoin you from performing services in breach of Section 4(c) during the term of employment and for a period of 12 months following the termination of employment. You hereby agree to submit to the jurisdiction of any Court of competent jurisdiction in any disputes that arise under this Agreement. 

(e) 
    You further agree that, in the event of your breach of this Section 4, the Company shall also be entitled to recover the value of any amounts previously paid or payable or any shares (or the value of any shares) delivered or deliverable to you pursuant to any Fiserv bonus program, this Agreement, and any other Fiserv plan or arrangement. 

(f) 
    You agree that the terms of this Agreement shall survive the termination of your employment with the Company. 

(g) 
    YOU HAVE READ THIS SECTION 4 AND AGREE THAT THE CONSIDERATION PROVIDED BY THE COMPANY IS FAIR AND REASONABLE AND FURTHER AGREE THAT GIVEN THE IMPORTANCE TO THE COMPANY OF ITS CONFIDENTIAL AND PROPRIETARY INFORMATION, THE POST-EMPLOYMENT RESTRICTIONS ON YOUR ACTIVITIES ARE LIKEWISE FAIR AND REASONABLE. 

5. 
    Termination of Employment  .    

(a) 
    Vesting  .  If you cease to be an employee of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company for any reason (a    Termination Event   ) prior to the last day of the Performance Period, then the Award shall terminate on the date on which such Termination Event occurs;   provided that  , if the reason for your Termination Event is: 
  (i)    Disability, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award, if any, shall be determined after the end of the Performance Period  as if you had not terminated employment, but multiplied times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed whole calendar months of your employment during the Performance Period and the denominator of which is [the total number of calendar months in the Performance Period];  or 
  (ii)    Death, then the number of Shares issuable under this Award, if any, shall be determined after the end of the Performance Period as if you had not terminated employment, but multiplied times a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of completed whole calendar months of your employment during the Performance Period and the denominator of which is [the total number of calendar months in the Performance Period], and such Shares shall be issued at that time to your designated beneficiary or, if none, to your estate.  
  If you are regularly scheduled to work less than 20 hours per calendar week for the Company or any subsidiary of the Company, you will be deemed to have experienced a Termination Event. 

(b) 
    Change of Control  . If a Change of Control of the Company occurs prior to the end of the Performance Period, then as of the date of the Change of Control, you will be paid cash in an amount equal to the fair market value (as of the date of the Change of Control) of such number of Shares as is determined by multiplying the number of Target Units set forth in the Award Memorandum times [         ]%.  Thereafter, the Award shall terminate.   

4 

(c) 
    Service as Director  . For purposes of this Agreement, an employee of the Company, if also serving as a director, will not be deemed to have terminated employment for purposes of this Agreement until his or her service as a director ends, and his or her years of service will be deemed to include years of service as a director.  

(d) 
    Termination for Cause  .  Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, if you are terminated from employment by the Company for Cause, then this Award will forfeit immediately as of the date of such termination.   

(e) 
    No Further Obligation  . The Company will have no further obligations to you under this Award if the Award terminates as provided herein.  

6.  
    Deferral of Performance Share Units  . If you are eligible to, and properly elect to, defer delivery of all or part of the Shares otherwise issuable under this Award, such deferral will be governed by the Performance Share Unit Deferral Election Form executed by you separately from this Agreement.  
              7.  
    Issuance of Shares  . The Company, or its transfer agent, will issue and deliver the Shares to you as soon as practicable after the Award vests (pursuant to the terms hereof) with respect to such Shares, or, if a deferral election was made, at the time specified in the Deferral Election Form. If you die before the Company has distributed the Shares due with respect to the vested Performance Share Units, the Company will issue the Shares to your estate or in accordance with applicable laws of descent and distribution. The Shares will be issued and delivered in book entry form, and the Company will not be liable for damages relating to any delays in making an appropriate book entry or any mistakes or errors in the making of the book entry; provided that the Company shall correct any errors caused by it. Any such book entry will be subject to such stop transfer orders and other restrictions as the Company may deem advisable under (a) the Plan and any agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award or the Shares, (b) any applicable federal or state laws, and/or (c) the rules, regulations and other requirements of the Securities and Exchange Commission (   SEC   ) of any stock exchange upon which the Shares are listed.  The Company may cause an appropriate book entry notation to be made with respect to the Shares to reference any of the foregoing restrictions. 
              8.  
    Non-Transferability of Award  . Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, until the Shares have been issued under this Award, this Award and the Shares issuable hereunder and the rights and privileges conferred hereby may not be sold, transferred, pledged, assigned, or otherwise alienated or hypothecated (by operation of law or otherwise). Upon any attempt to transfer, assign, pledge, hypothecate or otherwise dispose of this Award, or of any right or privilege conferred hereby, contrary to the provisions of the Plan or of this Agreement, or upon any attempted sale under any execution, attachment or similar process upon the rights and privileges conferred hereby, this Award and the rights and privileges conferred hereby shall immediately become null and void.  
              9.  
    Conditions to Issuance of Shares  . The Shares issued to you hereunder may be either previously authorized but unissued shares or issued shares which have been reacquired by the Company. The Company shall not be required to issue any Shares hereunder prior to fulfillment of all of the following conditions: (a) the admission of such Shares to listing on all stock exchanges on which such class of stock is then listed; (b) the completion of any registration or other qualification of such Shares under any state or federal law or under the rulings or regulations of the SEC or any other governmental regulatory body, which the compensation committee of the Board of Directors (the    Compensation Committee   ) shall, in its discretion, deem necessary or advisable; (c) the obtaining of any approval or other clearance from any state or federal governmental agency, which the Compensation Committee shall, in its discretion, determine to be necessary or advisable; (d) the lapse of such reasonable period of time following the date of vesting of the Award or the payment event specified in a deferral election as the Compensation Committee may establish from time to time for reasons of administrative convenience (provided that any such period shall be in compliance with Code Section  
     
   5 

409A); and (e) your acceptance of the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within the time period and in the manner specified in this Agreement.  
           10.  
    Dividends; No Rights as Shareholder  .   If the Company declares a cash dividend and the dividend record date occurs prior to the date the Award vests, you will be credited with an additional number of Target Units on the date the cash dividends are paid to the Company shareholders equal to (a) the amount of cash dividends payable with respect to a number of shares of stock equal to your Target Units divided by (b) the Fair Market Value of a Share on the date the dividend is paid.   Until this Award vests and the Shares are issued to you, you shall have no rights as a shareholder of the Company with respect to the Shares. Specifically, you understand and agree that you do not have voting rights or, except as provided in this Section 10, the right to receive dividends or any other distributions paid with respect to shares of Company common stock by virtue of this Award or the Shares subject hereto.   
              11.  
    Addresses for Notices  . Any notice to be given to the Company under the terms of this Agreement shall be addressed to the Company as follows: Corporate Secretary, Fiserv, Inc., 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, WI 53045, or at such other address as the Company may hereafter designate in writing. Any notice to be given to you shall be addressed to you at the address set forth in the Company s records from time to time.  
              12.  
    Captions; Agreement Severable  . Captions provided herein are for convenience only and are not to serve as a basis for interpretation or construction of this Agreement. In the event that any provision in this Agreement shall be held invalid or unenforceable, such provision shall be severable from, and such invalidity or unenforceability shall not be construed to have any effect on, the remaining provisions of this Agreement.  
              13.  
    Securities and Tax Representations  .    
              (a) 
    You acknowledge receipt of the prospectus under the Registration Statement on Form S-8 with respect to the Plan filed by the Company with the SEC. You represent and agree that you will comply with all applicable laws and Company policies relating to the Plan, this Agreement and any disposition of Shares and that upon the acquisition of any Shares subject to this Award, you will make or enter into such written representations, warranties and agreements as the Company may reasonably request to comply with applicable securities laws or this Agreement. 
              (b) 
    You represent and warrant that you understand the federal, state and local income and employment tax consequences associated with the granting of the Award, the vesting of the Award, the deferral of all or a portion of the Shares otherwise issuable upon vesting of the Award, and the subsequent sale or other disposition of any Shares. You understand and agree that when this Award vests and Shares are issued, and you thereby realize gross income (if any) taxable as compensation in respect of such vesting or issuance, the Company will be required to withhold federal, state and local taxes on the full amount of the compensation income realized by you and may also be required to withhold other amounts as a result of such vesting.  You hereby agree to provide the Company with cash funds or Shares equal in value to the federal, state and local payroll and income taxes and other amounts required to be withheld by the Company or its subsidiary in respect of any compensation income or wages in relation to the Award or make other arrangements satisfactory to the Company regarding such amounts, which may include deduction of such taxes from other wages owed to you by the Company or its subsidiaries. All matters with respect to the total amount to be withheld shall be determined by the Company in its sole discretion.   
              14.  
    Market Stand-Off  .  The Company reserves the right to impose restrictions on dispositions in connection with any underwritten public offering by the Company of its equity securities pursuant to an effective registration statement filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended. Upon receipt of written notice from the Company of a trading restriction, you agree that you shall not directly or indirectly sell, make any short sale of, loan, hypothecate, pledge, offer, grant or sell any option or  
     
   6 

other contract for the purchase of, purchase any option or other contract for the sale of, or otherwise dispose of or transfer or agree to engage in any of the foregoing transactions with respect to, any Shares acquired under this Award without the prior written consent of the Company.  Such restriction shall be in effect for such period of time following the date of the final prospectus for the offering as may be determined by the Company.  In no event, however, shall such period exceed one hundred eighty (180) days.   
                      
    (a) 
    None of the Plan, this Agreement or the Award Memorandum confers upon you any right to continue to be employed by the Company or any subsidiary of the Company or limits in any respect any right of the Company or any subsidiary of the Company to terminate your employment at any time, without liability. 

(b) 
    This Agreement, the Award Memorandum, the Plan and the Restricted Stock Unit Deferral Election Form, if any, contain the entire agreement between the Company and you relating to the Award and the Shares and supersede all prior agreements or understandings relating thereto. 

(c) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum may only be modified, amended or cancelled as provided in the Plan. 

(d) 
    If any one or more provisions of this Agreement or the Award Memorandum is found to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, the validity, legality and enforceability of the remaining provisions hereof shall not in any way be affected or impaired thereby. 

(e) 
    Any remedies available to the Company under the Plan or this Agreement are cumulative and are in addition to, and are not affected by, the other rights and remedies available to the Company under the Plan, this Agreement, by law or otherwise. 

(f) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without regard to conflict of law provisions. 

(g) 
    The Company agrees, and you agree, to be subject to and bound by all of the terms and conditions of the Plan. The Prospectus for the Plan is accessible on the Company s administrative agent s website in the  forms library  (www.netbenefits.fidelity.com) in the  forms library  and a paper copy is available upon request. 

(h) 
    This Agreement and the Award Memorandum shall be binding upon and inure to the benefit of any successor or assign of the Company and to any heir, distributee, executor, administrator or legal representative entitled by law to your rights hereunder. 

(i) 
    You understand that, under the terms of the Plan, this Agreement and the Award Memorandum, the Company may cancel or rescind this Award and/or the Shares in certain circumstances. 

By selecting the  I accept  box on the website of our administrative agent, you acknowledge your acceptance of, and agreement to be bound by, this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan.  
  Your acceptance of the terms of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan through our administrative agent s website is a condition to your receipt of Shares. You must log on to our administrative agent s website and accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within 120 calendar days of your Award Grant Date. If you do not accept the terms and conditions of this Agreement, the Award Memorandum and the Plan within such time, this Award will be forfeited and immediately terminate. 

7 

</EX-10.15>

<EX-10.33>
 11
 ex103312312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.33

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.33 

July 25, 2016 

Mr. Devin McGranahan 

Dear Devin: 
    
  We are pleased to offer you the role of Group President. As such you will be one of the most visible leaders in the Company, helping us create value for our key constituents as we aspire to be the most admired company in the financial technology industry.  
    
  We have assembled an attractive compensation package which we believe will provide meaningful value for you and your family, while helping us to create value for our clients, associates and shareholders.  You will be based in Brookfield, WI and report to me. 

Title 
  Group President  
    
  Annual Base Salary 
  $510,000 per year paid semi-monthly in accordance with our regular payroll process. 
    
  Annual Cash Incentive Plan (ACIP)   
              
    Your bonus payout will vary based upon the achievement of designated criteria annually which may include, but not be limited to, overall company performance, specific business performance, individual performance and personal leadership performance. 
                
    Bonus awards as earned will be paid no later than March 15 of the year following the calendar period. 
                
    You must be employed by the Company on the payment date to receive an ACIP payout for the prior year. 

Annual Equity Incentive Plan (AEIP) 
             
    You will be eligible to participate in our long-term equity plan (AEIP) which is a wealth building program for senior executives designed to reward and compensate you for long-term performance, and align your rewards with those of our shareholders. 
                
    Your base annual equity target will be $1,000,000 which will be delivered in the form of Restricted Stock Units, Stock Options and/or Performance Shares. Vesting will occur over a three-to-four year period depending upon the underlying equity instrument(s) delivered. Your equity award will also vary each year based on your performance, that of the Company, and other criteria as determined by the Board of Directors from time to time. Equity awards are subject to increases and decreases in value based on the share price at the time the award is made and/or vests.  
                
    You will be eligible for your first annual award in February 2017 which may be pro-rated depending upon your actual start date. 
                
    The award amount actually earned each year will vary based on the assessment of your performance as recommended by the CEO and approved by the Fiserv Board of Directors.   
       
  Sign-On Equity Award 
  In recognition of the value we believe you will bring to your new role, we will provide you with an upfront equity award granted on your start date with an initial valuation of approximately $3,200,000: 
             
    $1.0 million of the sign-on equity will be Restricted Stock Units (RSU) which will vest equally on the third and fourth anniversary of your start date. 
                
    $2.2 million of the sign-on equity will be Non-Qualified Stock Options which will vest equally on the third and fourth anniversary of your start date. 
       
  Sign-On Cash Award 
  In further recognition of the value we believe you will bring to the Company, we will provide you a cash award of $500,000. This amount will be paid in two equal installments; the first half to be paid 90 days after your employment start date, and the remainder to be paid twelve months following your start date. In the event that you leave Fiserv within 24 months of your commencement date you will be required to repay the amounts paid to you under this provision.  
    
  Additional Equity Award 
  In recognition of the economics you are leaving behind, in the event you are employed by the Company full-time, and in good-standing, in February, 2020, the Board of Directors shall grant you an additional equity award of $3 million to you in the form of stock options, PSUs and/or RSUs at an allocation not less than 50%  performance-based , but may be higher at your sole discretion. This award vests 50% in 2023 and the remainder in 2024. 
      Executive Share Ownership 
  As an executive officer, you will be subject to Fiserv s Executive Share Ownership Program, which requires you to hold equity, as defined by the plan, in an amount equal to  

4 times your base salary. You will have five years to meet the share ownership requirements with increments required to be accumulated beginning in year two. Restricted shares and a designated percentage of vested,  in the money  option value may count toward your share ownership requirement. 
    
  Additional Long-Term Wealth Building  
    
  401K Savings Plan 
  You will be eligible to participate in the company s 401(k) Savings Plan with a match of up to 3% (subject to the IRS limits). 
             
    Associates may contribute from one to fifty percent of their compensation to the plan on a pre-tax basis depending upon personal circumstances. 
                
    The company match is immediate and contributed on a per-pay period basis.  
                
    You are 100% vested in the money you defer into the 401(k) plan. The matching contributions from Fiserv will vest after you have accrued two years of service. 
       
  Employee Stock Purchase Plan (ESPP) 
  You are eligible to purchase Fiserv stock and may participate in the ESPP at the beginning of the first quarter following your start date. 
             
    You can purchase Fiserv stock at a 15% discount to the closing price on the last trading day in the quarter through after-tax payroll deductions. 
                
    You can contribute from one to ten percent of your base salary up to the allowable IRS maximum. 
                
    Stock is purchased quarterly and deposited into a personal account administered by Fidelity Investments. 
       
  Non-qualified Deferred Compensation Plan 
  You may, at your discretion, participate in a deferral of up to 100% of your base and bonus each year. These amounts would be paid to you at a time frame which you elect prior to the deferral of compensation.  
    
  Benefits 
  You will be provided a comprehensive executive benefits package designed to help provide security for you and your family. Fiserv places a strong emphasis on health and wellness education, and preventive services aimed at helping maintain your health and in becoming an informed consumer. Most of our benefits are effective on your first day of employment. The enclosed 2016 Associate Benefits Summary will provide additional information and specific eligibility requirements. 
    
  Post-Termination Benefits 
  You will participate in the executive severance plan which provides for the equivalent of twelve months of cash compensation in the event of a not-for-cause termination. In the event that you are terminated for a reason other than cause, and the initial, sign-on equity  

award granted with the commencement of your employment is not fully vested, that award shall vest fully under this agreement.  
    
  Relocation 
  You will be required to relocate to the Fiserv corporate headquarters within 24 months of your start date. At the time of your relocation, the company will provide you with a full relocation package consistent with that provided to other similarly situated executives in the company. This plan is intended to cover all reasonable expenses subject to normal approvals. In the interim period, the Company will reimburse you for all reasonable travel expenses incurred traveling to a Fiserv location from your home city. In the event that you choose or otherwise fail to relocate within the requisite time period, the company may, in its sole discretion, treat that decision as a  for-cause  termination of your employment. 
    
  Paid Time-Off (PTO) 
  As a Group President participating in the Executive Share Ownership Program, you may take personal time off, which includes holidays, vacation and sick time, subject to Company approval. You are not subject to a defined limit on PTO and accordingly, there is no carry-forward of time in any period. 
    
  Start Date    
  We anticipate a start date on or about September 19, 2016 or other mutually acceptable date. This offer is contingent upon your successful completion of our pre-hire processes including a background check and other screens. 

Devin, we are excited to have you join the Fiserv senior leadership team and anticipate you will have a significant positive impact on our future. Importantly, I believe Fiserv is a place where you will have the opportunity to achieve your career and personal goals. We look forward to having you as part of the team that drives the transformation of the financial services industry. 
    
  If these terms are acceptable to you, please sign below and return to me at your earliest convenience. This offer will not be considered final until successful completion of all pre-hiring requirements, as approved by me.  I am happy to discuss any questions or comments you may have at your earliest convenience.   
    
  Very truly yours, 
    
  /s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki 
    
  Jeffery W. Yabuki 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Acknowledged and accepted: 

/s/ Devin B. McGranahan 
      
    8-2-16 
      Devin McGranahan 
      
    Date 

Pre-hiring conditions satisfied: 

</EX-10.33>

<EX-10.34>
 12
 ex103412312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.34

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.34 

KEY EXECUTIVE EMPLOYMENT AND SEVERANCE AGREEMENT 
  THIS AGREEMENT, made and entered into as of the 31st day of October, 2016, by and between Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (hereinafter referred to as the  Company ), and Devin McGranahan (hereinafter referred to as the  Executive ). 
  W     I     T     N     E     S     S     E     T     H 
  WHEREAS, the Executive is employed by the Company and/or a subsidiary of the Company (hereinafter referred to collectively as the  Employer ) in a key executive capacity and the Executive s services are valuable to the conduct of the business of the Company; 
  WHEREAS, the Company desires to continue to attract and retain dedicated and skilled management employees in a period of industry consolidation, consistent with achieving the best possible value for its shareholders in any change in control of the Company; 
  WHEREAS, the Company recognizes that circumstances may arise in which a change in control of the Company occurs, through acquisition or otherwise, thereby causing a potential conflict of interest between the Company s needs for the Executive to remain focused on the Company s business and for the necessary continuity in management prior to and following a change in control, and the Executive s reasonable personal concerns regarding future employment with the Employer and economic protection in the event of loss of employment as a consequence of a change in control; 
  WHEREAS, the Company and the Executive are desirous that any proposal for a change in control or acquisition of the Company will be considered by the Executive objectively and with reference only to the best interests of the Company and its shareholders; 
  WHEREAS, the Executive will be in a better position to consider the Company s best interests if the Executive is afforded reasonable economic security, as provided in this Agreement, against altered conditions of employment which could result from any such change in control or acquisition; 
  WHEREAS, the Executive possesses intimate knowledge of the business and affairs of the Company and has acquired certain confidential information and data with respect to the Company; and 
  WHEREAS, the Company desires to insure, insofar as possible, that it will continue to have the benefit of the Executive s services and to protect its confidential information and goodwill. 
  NOW, THEREFORE, in consideration of the foregoing and of the mutual covenants and agreements hereinafter set forth, the parties hereto mutually covenant and agree as follows: 
  
   1 

1.  Definitions  . 
  (a)        409A Affiliate  .  The term  409A Affiliate  means each entity that is required to be included in the Company s controlled group of corporations within the meaning of Section 414(b) of the Code, or that is under common control with the Company within the meaning of Section 414(c) of the Code;   provided, however,   that the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used in place of the phrase  at least 80 percent  each place it appears therein or in the regulations thereunder. 
  (b)        Accrued Benefits  .  The term  Accrued Benefits  shall include the following amounts, payable as described herein:  (i) all base salary for the time period ending with the Termination Date; (ii) reimbursement for any and all monies advanced in connection with the Executive s employment for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the Executive on behalf of the Employer for the time period ending with the Termination Date; (iii) any and all other cash earned through the Termination Date and deferred at the election of the Executive or pursuant to any deferred compensation plan then in effect; (iv) notwithstanding any provision of any bonus or incentive compensation plan applicable to the Executive, but subject to any irrevocable deferral election then in effect, a lump sum amount, in cash, of any bonus or incentive compensation that has been allocated or awarded to the Executive for a fiscal year or other measuring period under the plan that ends prior to the Termination Date but has not yet been paid (pursuant to Section 5(f) or otherwise); and (v) all other payments and benefits to which the Executive (or in the event of the Executive s death, the Executive s surviving spouse or other beneficiary) may be entitled on the Termination Date as compensatory fringe benefits or under the terms of any benefit plan of the Employer, excluding severance payments under any Employer severance policy, practice or agreement in effect on the Termination Date.  Payment of Accrued Benefits shall be made promptly in accordance with the Company s prevailing practice with respect to clauses (i) and (ii) or, with respect to clauses (iii), (iv) and (v), pursuant to the terms of the benefit plan or practice establishing such benefits. 
  (c)        Act  .  The term  Act  means the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended. 
  (d)        Affiliate and Associate  .  The terms  Affiliate  and  Associate  shall have the respective meanings ascribed to such terms in Rule 12b-2 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Act. 
  (e)        Annual Cash Compensation  .  The term  Annual Cash Compensation  shall mean the sum of (i) the Executive s Annual Base Salary (determined as of the time of the Change in Control of the Company or, if higher, immediately prior to the date the Notice of Termination is given) plus (ii) an amount equal to (A) if the Executive has been employed by the Company for at least 36 continuous months prior to the Change in Control of the Company, the highest annual incentive bonus the Executive earned with respect to     any of the three fiscal years prior to the fiscal year in which the Change in Control of the Company occurs, or (B) if the Executive has not been employed by the Company for at least 36 continuous months prior to the Change in Control of the Company, the greater of (x) 60% of the Executive s Annual Base Salary as of the time of the Change in Control of the Company or (y) the highest annual incentive bonus  
  
   2 

the Executive earned with respect to     any of the two fiscal years prior to the fiscal year in which the     Change in Control of the Company occurs. 
  (f)        Beneficial Owner  .  A Person shall be deemed to be the  Beneficial Owner  of any securities: 
  (i)        which such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates has the right to acquire (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time) pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding, or upon the exercise of conversion rights, exchange rights, rights, warrants or options, or otherwise;   provided, however, that   a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, (A) securities tendered pursuant to a tender or exchange offer made by or on behalf of such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates until such tendered securities are accepted for purchase, or (B) securities issuable upon exercise of any rights issued pursuant to the terms of any shareholder rights agreement that the Company may adopt at any time before the issuance of such securities; 
  (ii)        which such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates, directly or indirectly, has the right to vote or dispose of or has  beneficial ownership  of (as determined pursuant to Rule 13d-3 of the General Rules and Regulations under the Act), including pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding;   provided, however, that   a Person shall not be deemed the Beneficial Owner of, or to beneficially own, any security under this clause (ii) as a result of an agreement, arrangement or understanding to vote such security if the agreement, arrangement or understanding:  (A) arises solely from a revocable proxy or consent given to such Person in response to a public proxy or consent solicitation made pursuant to, and in accordance with, the applicable rules and regulations under the Act and (B) is not also then reportable on a Schedule 13D under the Act (or any comparable or successor report); or 
  (iii)        which are beneficially owned, directly or indirectly, by any other Person with which such Person or any of such Person s Affiliates or Associates has any agreement, arrangement or understanding for the purpose of acquiring, holding, voting (except pursuant to a revocable proxy as described in clause (ii) above) or disposing of any voting securities of the Company. 
  (g)        Cause  .   Cause  for termination by the Employer of the Executive s employment shall be limited to (i) the engaging by the Executive in intentional conduct not taken in good faith that the Company establishes, by clear and convincing evidence, has caused demonstrable and serious financial injury to the Employer, as evidenced by a determination in a binding and final judgment, order or decree of a court or administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, in effect after exhaustion or lapse of all rights of appeal, in an action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative; (ii) conviction of a felony, as evidenced by binding and final judgment, order or decree of a court of competent jurisdiction, in effect after exhaustion of all rights of appeal, which substantially impairs the Executive s ability to perform his duties or responsibilities; or (iii) continuing willful and unreasonable refusal by the Executive to perform the Executive s duties or responsibilities, unless significantly changed without the Executive s consent. 
  
   3 

(h)        Change in Control of the Company  .  A  Change in Control of the Company  shall be deemed to have occurred if an event set forth in any one of the following paragraphs shall have occurred: 
  (i)        any Person (other than (A) the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (B) a trustee or other fiduciary holding securities under any employee benefit plan of the Company or any of its subsidiaries, (C) an underwriter temporarily holding securities pursuant to an offering of such securities or (D) a corporation owned, directly or indirectly, by the shareholders of the Company in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of stock in the Company ( Excluded Persons )) is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates after the date of this Agreement, pursuant to express authorization by the Board that refers to this exception) representing 20% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities; or 
  (ii)        the following individuals cease for any reason to constitute a majority of the number of directors of the Company then serving:  (A) individuals who, on the date of this Agreement     constituted the Board and (B) any new director (other than a director whose initial assumption of office is in connection with an actual or threatened election contest, including but not limited to a consent solicitation, relating to the election of directors of the Company) whose appointment or election by the Board or nomination for election by the Company s shareholders was approved by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the directors then still in office who either were directors on the date of this Agreement, or whose appointment, election or nomination for election was previously so approved (collectively the  Continuing Directors    provided, however, that   individuals who are appointed to the Board pursuant to or in accordance with the terms of an agreement relating to a merger, consolidation, or share exchange involving the Company (or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) shall not be Continuing Directors for purposes of this Agreement until after such individuals are first nominated for election by a vote of at least two-thirds (2/3) of the then Continuing Directors and are thereafter elected as directors by the shareholders of the Company at a meeting of shareholders held following consummation of such merger, consolidation, or share exchange; and,   provided further, that   in the event the failure of any such persons appointed to the Board to be Continuing Directors results in a Change in Control of the Company, the subsequent qualification of such persons as Continuing Directors shall not alter the fact that a Change in Control of the Company occurred; or 
  (iii)        the shareholders of the Company approve a merger, consolidation or share exchange of the Company with any other corporation or approve the issuance of voting securities of the Company in connection with a merger, consolidation or share exchange of the Company (or any direct or indirect subsidiary of the Company) pursuant to applicable stock exchange requirements, other than (A) a merger, consolidation or share exchange which would result in the voting securities of the Company outstanding immediately prior to such merger, consolidation or share exchange continuing to represent (either by remaining outstanding or by being converted into voting securities of  
  
   4 

the surviving entity or any parent thereof) at least 50% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of the Company or such surviving entity or any parent thereof outstanding immediately after such merger, consolidation or share exchange, or (B) a merger, consolidation or share exchange effected to implement a recapitalization of the Company (or similar transaction) in which no Person (other than an Excluded Person) is or becomes the Beneficial Owner, directly or indirectly, of securities of the Company (not including in the securities beneficially owned by such Person any securities acquired directly from the Company or its Affiliates after the date of this Agreement, pursuant to express authorization by the Board that refers to this exception) representing 20% or more of either the then outstanding shares of common stock of the Company or the combined voting power of the Company s then outstanding voting securities; or 
  (iv)        the shareholders of the Company approve of a plan of complete liquidation or dissolution of the Company or an agreement for the sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets (in one transaction or a series of related transactions within any period of 24 consecutive months), other than a sale or disposition by the Company of all or substantially all of the Company s assets to an entity at least 75% of the combined voting power of the voting securities of which are owned by Persons in substantially the same proportions as their ownership of the Company immediately prior to such sale. 
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, no  Change in Control of the Company  shall be deemed to have occurred if there is consummated any transaction or series of integrated transactions immediately following which the record holders of the common stock of the Company immediately prior to such transaction or series of transactions continue to own, directly or indirectly, in the same proportions as their ownership in the Company, an entity that owns all or substantially all of the assets or voting securities of the Company immediately following such transaction or series of transactions. 
  (i)        Code  .  The term  Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, including any amendments thereto or successor tax codes thereof.  Any reference to a particular provision of the Code shall be deemed to include reference to any successor provision thereto. 
  (j)        Covered Termination  .  Subject to Section 2(b), the term  Covered Termination  means any Termination of Employment during the Employment Period where the Termination Date, or the date Notice of Termination is delivered, is any date prior to the end of the Employment Period. 
  (k)        Employment Period  .  Subject to Section 2(b), the term  Employment Period  means a period commencing on the date of a Change in Control of the Company, and ending at 11:59 p.m. Central Time on the third anniversary of such date. 
  (l)        Good Reason  .  The Executive shall have  Good Reason  for termination of employment in the event of: 
  
   5 

(i)        any breach of this Agreement by the Employer, including specifically any breach by the Employer of the agreements contained in Section 3(b), Section 4, Section 5, or Section 6, other than an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent failure not occurring in bad faith that the Employer remedies promptly after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive; 
  (ii)        any reduction in the Executive s base salary, percentage of base salary available as incentive compensation or bonus opportunity or benefits, in each case relative to those most favorable to the Executive in effect at any time during the 180-day period prior to the Change in Control of the Company or, to the extent more favorable to the Executive, those in effect at any time during the Employment Period; 
  (iii)        the removal of the Executive from, or any failure to reelect or reappoint the Executive to, any of the positions held with the Employer on the date of the Change in Control of the Company or any other positions with the Employer to which the Executive shall thereafter be elected, appointed or assigned, except in the event that such removal or failure to reelect or reappoint relates to the termination by the Employer of the Executive s employment for Cause or by reason of disability pursuant to Section 12; 
  (iv)        a good faith determination by the Executive that there has been a material adverse change, without the Executive s written consent, in the Executive s working conditions or status with the Employer relative to the most favorable working conditions or status in effect during the 180-day period prior to the Change in Control of the Company, or, to the extent more favorable to the Executive, those in effect at any time during the Employment Period, including but not limited to (A) a significant change in the nature or scope of the Executive s authority, powers, functions, duties or responsibilities, or (B) a significant reduction in the level of support services, staff, secretarial and other assistance, office space and accoutrements, but in each case excluding for this purpose an isolated, insubstantial and inadvertent event not occurring in bad faith that the Employer remedies within ten (10) days after receipt of notice thereof given by the Executive; 
  (v)        the relocation of the Executive s principal place of employment to a location more than 35 miles from the Executive s principal place of employment on the date 180 days prior to the Change in Control of the Company; 
  (vi)        the Employer requires the Executive to travel on Employer business 20% in excess of the average number of days per month the Executive was required to travel during the 180-day period prior to the Change in Control of the Company; or 
  (vii)        failure by the Company to obtain the Agreement referred to in Section 17(a) as provided therein. 
  (m)        Person  .  The term  Person  shall mean any individual, firm, partnership, corporation or other entity, including any successor (by merger or otherwise) of such entity, or a group of any of the foregoing acting in concert. 
  
   6 

(n)        Prorated Bonus  .  The term  Prorated Bonus  shall mean an amount equal to the sum of the following with respect to each contingent bonus or incentive compensation award made to the Executive for all uncompleted periods as of the Termination Date: (i) the value of such award, calculated as if the goals with respect to such award had been attained (at the target level, if applicable), multiplied by a fraction, the numerator of which is the number of days that have elapsed from the first day of the period to which the award relates to the Termination Date and the denominator of which is the total number of days in the period to which the award relates (without regard to the Termination Date), reduced by (ii) any amounts previously paid with respect to such award or that will be paid (without regard to this Agreement). 
  (o)        Retirement  .  The term  Retirement  means the cessation of service as an employee of the Company and its Affiliates for any reason other than death, disability (as provided in Section 12), or termination for Cause, if at the time of such cessation of service either (1) the Executive is age 60 and his age plus years of service for the Company and its Affiliates is equal to or greater than 70, or (2) the Executive is age 65 or older.  
  (p)        Separation from Service  .  For purposes of this Agreement, the term  Separation from Service  means the Executive s Termination of Employment, or if the Executive continues to provide services following his or her Termination of Employment, such later date as is considered a separation from service from the Company and its 409A Affiliates within the meaning of Code Section 409A.  Specifically, if the Executive continues to provide services to the Company or a 409A Affiliate in a capacity other than as an employee, such shift in status is not automatically a Separation from Service. 
  (q)        Termination of Employment  .  For purposes of this Agreement, the Executive s  Termination of Employment  shall be presumed to occur when the Company and the Executive reasonably anticipate that no further services will be performed by the Executive for the Company and its 409A Affiliates or that the level of bona fide services the Executive will perform as an employee of the Company and its 409A Affiliates will permanently decrease to no more than 20% of the average level of bona fide services performed by the Executive (whether as an employee or independent contractor) for the Company and its 409A Affiliates over the immediately preceding 36-month period (or such lesser period of services).  Whether the Executive has experienced a Termination of Employment shall be determined by the Employer in good faith and consistent with Section 409A of the Code.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Executive takes a leave of absence for purposes of military leave, sick leave or other bona fide reason, the Executive will not be deemed to have experienced a Termination of Employment for the first six (6) months of the leave of absence, or if longer, for so long as the Executive s right to reemployment is provided either by statute or by contract, including this Agreement;   provided that   if the leave of absence is due to a medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months, where such impairment causes the Executive to be unable to perform the duties of his or her position of employment or any substantially similar position of employment, the leave may be extended by the Employer for up to 29 months without causing a Termination of Employment. 
  
   7 

(r)        Termination Date  .  Except as otherwise provided in Section 2(b), Section 10(b), and Section 17(a), the term  Termination Date  means (i) if the Executive s Termination of Employment is by the Executive s death, the date of death; (ii) if the Executive s Termination of Employment is by reason of Retirement, the date of such retirement; (iii) if the Executive s Termination of Employment is by reason of disability pursuant to Section 12, the earlier of 30 days after the Notice of Termination is given or one day prior to the end of the Employment Period; (iv) if the Executive s Termination of Employment is by the Executive voluntarily (other than for Good Reason), the date the Notice of Termination is given; and (v) if the Executive s Termination of Employment is by the Employer (other than by reason of disability pursuant to Section 12) or by the Executive for Good Reason, the earlier of 30 days after the Notice of Termination is given or one day prior to the end of the Employment Period.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, 
  (A)        If termination is for Cause pursuant to Section 1(g)(iii) and if the Executive has cured the conduct constituting such Cause as described by the Employer in its Notice of Termination within such 30-day or shorter period, then the Executive s employment hereunder shall continue as if the Employer had not delivered its Notice of Termination. 
  (B)        If the Executive shall in good faith give a Notice of Termination for Good Reason and the Employer notifies the Executive that a dispute exists concerning the termination within the 15-day period following receipt thereof, then the Executive may elect to continue his or her employment during such dispute and the Termination Date shall be determined under this paragraph.  If the Executive so elects and it is thereafter determined that Good Reason did exist, the Termination Date shall be the earliest of (1) the date on which the dispute is finally determined, either (x) by mutual written agreement of the parties or (y) in accordance with Section 22, (2) the date of the Executive s death or (3) one day prior to the end of the Employment Period.  If the Executive so elects and it is thereafter determined that Good Reason did not exist, then the employment of the Executive hereunder shall continue after such determination as if the Executive had not delivered the Notice of Termination asserting Good Reason and there shall be no Termination Date arising out of such Notice.  In either case, this Agreement continues, until the Termination Date, if any, as if the Executive had not delivered the Notice of Termination except that, if it is finally determined that Good Reason did exist, the Executive shall in no case be denied the benefits described in Section 9 (including a Termination Payment) based on events occurring after the Executive delivered his Notice of Termination. 
  (C)        Except as provided in Section 1(r)(B), if the party receiving the Notice of Termination notifies the other party that a dispute exists concerning the termination within the appropriate period following receipt thereof and it is finally determined that the reason asserted in such Notice of Termination did not exist, then (1) if such Notice was delivered by the Executive, the Executive will be deemed to have voluntarily terminated his employment and the Termination Date shall be the earlier of the date 15 days after the Notice of Termination is given or one day prior to the end of the Employment Period and (2) if delivered by the  
  
   8 

Company, the Company will be deemed to have terminated the Executive other than by reason of death, disability or Cause. 
  2.        Termination or Cancellation Prior to Change in Control  .   
  (a)        Subject to Section 2(b), the Employer and the Executive shall each retain the right to terminate the employment of the Executive at any time prior to a Change in Control of the Company.  Subject to Section 2(b), in the event the Executive s employment is terminated prior to a Change in Control of the Company, this Agreement shall be terminated and cancelled and of no further force and effect, and any and all rights and obligations of the parties hereunder shall cease. 
  (b)        Anything in this Agreement to the contrary notwithstanding, if a Change in Control of the Company occurs and if the Executive s employment is terminated (other than a termination due to the Executive s death or as a result of the Executive s disability) during the period of 180 days prior to the date on which the Change in Control of the Company occurs, and if it is reasonably demonstrated by the Executive that such termination of employment (i) was at the request of a third party who has taken steps reasonably calculated to effect a Change in Control of the Company or (ii) otherwise arose in connection with or in anticipation of a Change in Control of the Company, then for all purposes of this Agreement such termination of employment shall be deemed a  Covered Termination,   Notice of Termination  shall be deemed to have been given, and the  Employment Period  shall be deemed to have begun on the date of such termination which shall be deemed to be the  Termination Date  and the date of the Change in Control of the Company for purposes of this Agreement. 
  3.        Employment Period; Vesting of Certain Benefits  .  
  (a)        If a Change in Control of the Company occurs when the Executive is employed by the Employer, the Employer will continue thereafter to employ the Executive during the Employment Period, and the Executive will remain in the employ of the Employer in accordance with and subject to the terms and provisions of this Agreement.  Any Termination of Employment during the Employment Period, whether by the Company or the Employer, shall be deemed a termination by the Company for purposes of this Agreement. 
  (b)        If a Change in Control of the Company occurs when the Executive is employed by the Employer, (i) the Company shall cause all restrictions on restricted stock awards made to the Executive prior to the Change in Control of the Company to lapse such that the Executive is fully and immediately vested in the Executive s restricted stock upon such a Change in Control of the Company; and (ii) the Company shall cause all stock options granted to the Executive prior to the Change in Control of the Company pursuant to the Company s stock option plan(s) to be fully and immediately vested upon such a Change in Control of the Company. 
  4.        Duties  .  During the Employment Period, the Executive shall, in the same capacities and positions held by the Executive at the time of the Change in Control of the Company or in such other capacities and positions as may be agreed to by the Employer and the Executive in writing, devote the Executive s best efforts and all of the Executive s business time,  
  
   9 

attention and skill to the business and affairs of the Employer, as such business and affairs now exist and as they may hereafter be conducted;   provided, however, that   the Executive shall be entitled (a) to serve as director of other corporations and (b) to devote time to personal and financial activities, in each case so long as such activities do not materially affect the Executive s ability to perform the Executive s duties hereunder. 
  5.        Compensation  .  During the Employment Period, the Executive shall be compensated as follows: 
  (a)        The Executive shall receive, at reasonable intervals (but not less often than monthly) and in accordance with such standard policies as may be in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company, an annual base salary in cash equivalent of not less than twelve times the Executive s highest monthly base salary for the twelve-month period immediately preceding the month in which the Change in Control of the Company occurs or, if higher, an annual base salary at the rate in effect immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company (which base salary shall, unless otherwise agreed in writing by the Executive and subject to any irrevocable deferral election then in effect, include the current receipt by the Executive of any amounts which, prior to the Change in Control of the Company, the Executive had elected to defer, whether such compensation is deferred under Section 401(k) of the Code or otherwise), subject to adjustment as hereinafter provided in Section 6 (such salary amount as adjusted upward from time to time is hereafter referred to as the  Annual Base Salary ). 
  (b)        The Executive shall receive fringe benefits at least equal in value to the highest value of such benefits provided for the Executive at any time during the 180-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company or, if more favorable to the Executive, those provided generally at any time during the Employment Period to any executives of the Employer of comparable status and position to the Executive; and shall be reimbursed, at such intervals and in accordance with such standard policies that are most favorable to the Executive that were in effect at any time during the 180-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company, for any and all monies advanced in connection with the Executive s employment for reasonable and necessary expenses incurred by the Executive on behalf of the Employer, including travel expenses. 
  (c)        The Executive and/or the Executive s family, as the case may be, shall be included, to the extent eligible thereunder (which eligibility shall not be conditioned on the Executive s salary grade or on any other requirement which excludes persons of comparable status to the Executive unless such exclusion was in effect for such plan or an equivalent plan at any time during the 180-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company), in any and all plans providing benefits for the Employer s salaried employees in general, including but not limited to group life insurance, hospitalization, medical, dental, profit sharing and stock bonus plans;   provided, that  , (i) in no event shall the aggregate level of benefits under such plans in which the Executive is included be less than the aggregate level of benefits under plans of the Employer of the type referred to in this Section 5(c) in which the Executive was participating at any time during the 180-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company and (ii) in no event shall the aggregate level of benefits under such plans be less than the aggregate level of benefits under plans of the type referred to in this Section 5(c)  
  
   10 

provided at any time after the Change in Control of the Company to any executive of the Employer of comparable status and position to the Executive. 
  (d)        The Executive shall annually be entitled to not fewer than the highest number of paid holidays to which the Executive was entitled annually at any time during the 180-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company or such greater number of paid holidays as may be made available annually to other executives of the Employer of comparable status and position to the Executive at any time during the Employment Period. 
  (e)        The Executive shall be included in all plans providing additional benefits to executives of the Employer of comparable status and position to the Executive, including but not limited to deferred compensation, split-dollar life insurance, supplemental retirement, stock option, stock appreciation, stock bonus and similar or comparable plans;   provided, that  , (i) in no event shall the aggregate level of benefits under such plans be less than the highest aggregate level of benefits under plans of the Employer of the type referred to in this Section 5(e) in which the Executive was participating at any time during the 180-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company; (ii) in no event shall the aggregate level of benefits under such plans be less than the aggregate levels of benefits under plans of the type referred to in this Section 5(e) provided at any time after the Change in Control of the Company to any executive of the Employer comparable in status and position to the Executive; and (iii) the Employer s obligation to include the Executive in bonus or incentive compensation plans shall be determined by Section 5(f). 
  (f)        To assure that the Executive will have an opportunity to earn incentive compensation after a Change in Control of the Company, the Executive shall be included in a bonus plan of the Employer which shall satisfy the standards described below (such plan, the  Bonus Plan ).  Bonuses under the Bonus Plan shall be payable with respect to achieving such financial or other goals reasonably related to the business of the Employer as the Employer shall establish (the  Goals ), all of which Goals shall be attainable, prior to the end of the Employment Period, with approximately the same degree of probability as the most attainable goals under the Employer s bonus plan or plans as in effect at any time during the 180-day period immediately prior to the Change in Control of the Company (whether one or more, the  Company Bonus Plan ) and in view of the Employer s existing and projected financial and business circumstances applicable at the time.  The amount of the bonus (the  Bonus Amount ) that the Executive is eligible to earn under the Bonus Plan shall be no less than the amount of the Executive s maximum award provided in such Company Bonus Plan (such bonus amount herein referred to as the  Targeted Bonus ), and in the event the Goals are not achieved such that the entire Targeted Bonus is not payable, the Bonus Plan shall provide for a payment of a Bonus Amount equal to a portion of the Targeted Bonus reasonably related to that portion of the Goals which were achieved.  Payment of the Bonus Amount shall not be affected by any circumstance occurring subsequent to the end of the Employment Period, including the Executive s Termination of Employment. 
  6.        Annual Compensation Adjustments  .  During the Employment Period, the Board of Directors of the Company (or an appropriate committee thereof) will consider and appraise, at least annually, the contributions of the Executive to the Company, and in accordance with the Company s practice prior to the Change in Control of the Company, due consideration  
  
   11 

shall be given to the upward adjustment of the Executive s Annual Base Salary, at least annually, (a) commensurate with increases generally given to other executives of the Company of comparable status and position to the Executive, and (b) as the scope of the Company s operations or the Executive s duties expand. 
  7.        Termination For Cause or Without Good Reason  .  If there is a Covered Termination for Cause or due to the Executive s voluntarily terminating his employment other than for Good Reason (any such terminations to be subject to the procedures set forth in Section 13), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive only Accrued Benefits. 
  8.        Termination Giving Rise to a Termination Payment  .  If there is a Covered Termination by the Executive for Good Reason, or by the Company other than by reason of (i) death, (ii) disability pursuant to Section 12, or (iii) Cause (any such terminations to be subject to the procedures set forth in Section 13), then the Executive shall be entitled to receive, and the Company shall promptly pay, Accrued Benefits and, in lieu of further base salary for periods following the Termination Date, as liquidated damages and additional severance pay and in consideration of the covenant of the Executive set forth in Section 14(a), the Termination Payment and the Prorated Bonus. 
  9.        Payments Upon Termination  .  
  (a)        Termination Payment  . 
  (i)        Subject to Section 9(a)(iii), the  Termination Payment  shall be an amount equal to the Annual Cash Compensation times two (2).   
  (ii)        The Termination Payment and the Prorated Bonus shall be paid to the Executive in cash equivalent on the first day of the seventh month following the month in which the Executive s Separation from Service occurs, without interest thereon;   provided that,   if on the date of the Executive s Separation from Service, neither the Company nor any other entity that is considered a  service recipient  with respect to the Executive within the meaning of Code Section 409A has any stock which is publicly traded on an established securities market (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.897-1(m)) or otherwise, then the Termination Payment and the Prorated Bonus shall be paid to the Executive in cash equivalent within ten (10) business days after the Termination Date, or if the Executive s Termination Date is pursuant to Section 2(b), within ten (10) business days after the date of the Change in Control of the Company (as defined without reference to Section 2(b)).  Such lump sum payment shall not be reduced by any present value or similar factor, and the Executive shall not be required to mitigate the amount of the Termination Payment and Prorated Bonus by securing other employment or otherwise, nor will such Termination Payment and Prorated Bonus be reduced by reason of the Executive securing other employment or for any other reason.  The Termination Payment and Prorated Bonus shall be in lieu of, and acceptance by the Executive of the Termination Payment and Prorated Bonus shall constitute the Executive s release of any rights of the Executive to, any other cash severance payments under any Company severance policy, practice or agreement. 
  
   12 

(iii)        Notwithstanding any other provision of this Agreement, if any portion of the Termination Payment or any other payment under this Agreement, or under any other agreement with or plan of the Employer (in the aggregate,  Total Payments ), would constitute an  excess parachute payment,  then the Executive shall have the option to have the Total Payments to be made to the Executive reduced such that the value of the aggregate Total Payments that the Executive is entitled to receive shall be One Dollar ($1) less than the maximum amount which the Executive may receive without becoming subject to the tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Code.  For purposes of this Agreement, the terms  excess parachute payment  and  parachute payments  shall have the meanings assigned to them in Section 280G of the Code and such  parachute payments  shall be valued as provided therein.  Present value for purposes of this Agreement shall be calculated in accordance with Section 1274(b)(2) of the Code.  Within 40 days following a Covered Termination or notice by one party to the other of its belief that there is a payment or benefit due the Executive that will result in an  excess parachute payment  as defined in Section 280G of the Code, the Executive and the Company, at the Company s expense, shall obtain the opinion (which need not be unqualified) of nationally recognized tax counsel ( National Tax Counsel ) selected by the Company s independent auditors and reasonably acceptable to the Executive (which may be regular outside counsel to the Company), which opinion sets forth (A) the amount of the Base Period Income, (B) the amount and present value of Total Payments, (C) the amount and present value of any excess parachute payments determined without regard to any reduction of Total Payments pursuant to this Section 9(a)(ii) and (D) the net after-tax proceeds to the Executive, taking into account the tax imposed under Section 4999 of the Code if (x) the Total Payments were reduced in accordance with the first sentence of this Section 9(a)(iii) or (y) the Total Payments were not so reduced.  As used in this Agreement, the term  Base Period Income  means an amount equal to the Executive s  annualized includable compensation for the base period  as defined in Section 280G(d)(1) of the Code.  For purposes of such opinion, the value of any noncash benefits or any deferred payment or benefit shall be determined by the Company s independent auditors in accordance with the principles of Section 280G(d)(3) and (4) of the Code, which determination shall be evidenced in a certificate of such auditors addressed to the Company and the Executive.  The opinion of National Tax Counsel shall be addressed to the Company and the Executive and shall be binding upon the Company and the Executive.  If such National Tax Counsel opinion determines that there would be an excess parachute payment, then, at the Executive s sole discretion, the Termination Payment hereunder or any other payment or benefit determined by such counsel to be includable in Total Payments may be reduced or eliminated as specified by the Executive in writing delivered to the Company within thirty days of his receipt of such opinion so that under the bases of calculations set forth in such opinion there will be no excess parachute payment.  If such National Tax Counsel so requests in connection with the opinion required by this Section 9(a), the Executive and the Company shall obtain, at the Company s expense, and the National Tax Counsel may rely on, the advice of a firm of recognized executive compensation consultants as to the reasonableness of any item of compensation to be received by the Executive solely with respect to its status under Section 280G of the Code and the regulations thereunder. 
  
   13 

(iv)        The Company agrees to bear all costs associated with, and to indemnify and hold harmless, the National Tax Counsel of and from any and all claims, damages, and expenses resulting from or relating to its determinations pursuant to this Section 9(a), except for claims, damages or expenses resulting from the gross negligence or willful misconduct of such firm. 
  (b)        Additional Benefits  .  If there is a Covered Termination and the Executive is entitled to Accrued Benefits, the Termination Payment and the Prorated Bonus, then the Company shall provide to the Executive the following additional benefits: 
  (i)        The Executive shall receive, until the end of the second calendar year following the calendar year in which the Executive s Separation from Service occurs, at the expense of the Company, outplacement services, on an individualized basis at a level of service commensurate with the Executive s status with the Company immediately prior to the date of the Change in Control of the Company (or, if higher, immediately prior to the Executive s Termination of Employment), provided by a nationally recognized executive placement firm selected by the Company;   provided that   the cost to the Company of such services shall not exceed 10% of the Executive s Annual Base Salary. 
  (ii)        Until the earlier of the end of the Employment Period or such time as the Executive has obtained new employment and is covered by benefits which in the aggregate are at least equal in value to the following benefits:  
  (A)        The Executive shall continue to be covered, at the expense of the Company, by the same or equivalent hospitalization, medical and dental coverage as was required hereunder with respect to the Executive immediately prior to the date the Notice of Termination is given.  If, following the end of the COBRA continuation period, such hospitalization, medical or dental coverage is provided under a health plan that is subject to Section 105(h) of the Code, then benefits payable under such health plan shall comply with the requirements of Treasury regulation section 1.409A-3(i)(1)(iv) and, if necessary, the Company shall amend such health plan to comply therewith.  If, following the end of the COBRA continuation period, the Company s health plan does not permit continued coverage by Executive and his covered dependents, then the Company may satisfy its obligations hereunder by purchasing an individual insurance policy on Executive s and his covered dependents  behalf or enrolling Executive and his covered dependents in a state-sponsored high risk health pool if individual insurance is not able to be obtained, all at the Company s expense.   
  (B)        If the Executive elects to convert his group life insurance to an individual policy, then the Company shall pay the Executive s premiums for such conversion policies.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if the Executive s Termination Payment is delayed for six (6) months following his Separation from Service, then during the first six (6) months following the Executive s Separation from Service, the Executive shall pay the conversion premiums and after the end of such six (6) month period, the Company shall make a cash equivalent payment  
  
   14 

to the Executive equal to the aggregate premiums paid by the Executive for such coverage, without interest thereon.   
  If the Executive is entitled to the Termination Payment pursuant to Section 2(b), then within ten (10) days following the Change in Control of the Company (determined without regard to Section 2(b)), the Company shall reimburse the Executive for any COBRA premiums the Executive paid for his hospitalization, medical and dental coverage under COBRA from the Executive s Termination Date through the date of the Change in Control of the Company (determined without regard to Section 2(b)). 
  (iii)        The Company shall reimburse the Executive for up to $15,000 in the aggregate of fees and expenses of consultants and/or legal or accounting advisors engaged by the Executive to advise the Executive as to matters relating to the computation of benefits due and payable under this Section 9. 
  10.        Death  . 
  (a)        Except as provided in Section 10(b), in the event of a Covered Termination due to the Executive s death, the Executive s estate, heirs and beneficiaries shall receive all the Executive s Accrued Benefits through the Termination Date and, no later than 90 days after the Executive s death, the Prorated Bonus. 
  (b)        In the event the Executive dies after a Notice of Termination is given (i) by the Company or (ii) by the Executive for Good Reason, the Executive s estate, heirs and beneficiaries shall be entitled to the benefits described in Section 10(a) and, subject to the provisions of this Agreement, to such Termination Payment as the Executive would have been entitled to had the Executive lived, except that the Termination Payment shall be paid within 90 days following the date of the Executive s death.  For purposes of this Section 10(b), the Termination Date shall be the earlier of 30 days following the giving of the Notice of Termination, subject to extension pursuant to Section 1(m), or one day prior to the end of the Employment Period. 
  11.        Retirement  .  If, during the Employment Period, the Executive and the Employer shall execute an agreement providing for the early retirement of the Executive from the Employer, or the Executive shall otherwise give notice that he is voluntarily choosing to retire early from the Employer, the Executive shall receive Accrued Benefits through the Termination Date;   provided that   if the Executive s employment is terminated by the Executive for Good Reason or by the Company other than by reason of death, disability or Cause and the Executive also, in connection with such termination, elects voluntary early retirement, then the Executive shall also be entitled to receive a Termination Payment and the Prorated Bonus pursuant to Section 8. 
  12.        Termination for Disability  .  If, during the Employment Period, as a result of the Executive s disability due to physical or mental illness or injury (regardless of whether such illness or injury is job-related), the Executive shall have been absent from the Executive s duties hereunder on a full-time basis for a period of six (6) consecutive months and, within 30 days after the Company notifies the Executive in writing that it intends to terminate the  
  
   15 

Executive s employment (which notice shall not constitute the Notice of Termination contemplated below), the Executive shall not have returned to the performance of the Executive s duties hereunder on a full-time basis, the Company may terminate the Executive s employment for purposes of this Agreement pursuant to a Notice of Termination given in accordance with Section 13.  If the Executive s employment is terminated on account of the Executive s disability in accordance with this Section, the Executive shall receive Accrued Benefits through the Termination Date and, no later than 90 days after the Executive s Separation from Service, the Prorated Bonus, and shall remain eligible for all benefits provided by any long term disability programs of the Employer in effect at the time of such termination. 
  13.        Termination Notice and Procedure  .  Any Covered Termination by the Company or the Executive (other than a termination of the Executive s employment that is a Covered Termination by virtue of Section 2(b)) shall be communicated by a written notice of termination ( Notice of Termination ) to the Executive, if such Notice is given by the Company, and to the Company, if such Notice is given by the Executive, all in accordance with the following procedures and those set forth in Section 24: 
  (a)        If such termination is for disability, Cause or Good Reason, the Notice of Termination shall indicate in reasonable detail the facts and circumstances alleged to provide a basis for such termination. 
  (b)        Any Notice of Termination by the Company shall have been approved, prior to the giving thereof to the Executive, by a resolution duly adopted by a majority of the directors of the Company (or any successor corporation) then in office. 
  (c)        If the Notice is given by the Executive for Good Reason, the Executive may cease performing his duties hereunder on or after the date 15 days after the delivery of Notice of Termination and shall in any event cease employment on the Termination Date.  If the Notice is given by the Company, then the Executive may cease performing his duties hereunder on the date of receipt of the Notice of Termination, subject to the Executive s rights hereunder. 
  (d)        The Executive shall have 30 days, or such longer period as the Company may determine to be appropriate, to cure any conduct or act, if curable, alleged to provide grounds for termination of the Executive s employment for Cause under this Agreement pursuant to Section 1(g)(iii). 
  (e)        The recipient of any Notice of Termination shall personally deliver or mail in accordance with Section 24 written notice of any dispute relating to such Notice of Termination to the party giving such Notice within 15 days after receipt thereof;   provided, however, that   if the Executive s conduct or act alleged to provide grounds for termination by the Company for Cause is curable, then such period shall be 30 days.  After the expiration of such period, the contents of the Notice of Termination shall become final and not subject to dispute. 
  14.        Further Obligations of the Executive  .  
  (a)        Competition  .  The Executive agrees that, in the event of any Covered Termination where the Executive is entitled to Accrued Benefits and the Termination Payment,  
  
   16 

the Executive shall not, for a period expiring six (6) months after the Termination Date, without the prior written approval of the Company s Board of Directors, participate in the management of, be employed by or own any business enterprise at a location within the United States that engages in substantial competition with the Company or its subsidiaries, where such enterprise s revenues from any competitive activities amount to 10% or more of such enterprise s net revenues and sales for its most recently completed fiscal year;   provided, however, that   nothing in this Section 14(a) shall prohibit the Executive from owning stock or other securities of a competitor amounting to less than five percent of the outstanding capital stock of such competitor. 
  (b)        Confidentiality  .  During and following the Executive s employment by the Company, the Executive shall hold in confidence and not directly or indirectly disclose or use or copy or make lists of any confidential information or proprietary data of the Company (including that of the Employer), except to the extent authorized in writing by the Board of Directors of the Company or required by any court or administrative agency, other than to an employee of the Company or a person to whom disclosure is reasonably necessary or appropriate in connection with the performance by the Executive of duties as an executive of the Company.  Confidential information shall not include any information known generally to the public or any information of a type not otherwise considered confidential by persons engaged in the same business or a business similar to that of the Company.  All records, files, documents and materials, or copies thereof, relating to the business of the Company which the Executive shall prepare, or use, or come into contact with, shall be and remain the sole property of the Company and shall be promptly returned to the Company upon termination of employment with the Company. 
  (c)        No Solicitation  .  The Executive agrees that, in the event of any Covered Termination where the Executive is entitled to Accrued Benefits, the Termination Payment and the Prorated Bonus, the Executive shall not, for a period expiring two years after the Termination Date, without the prior written approval of the Company s Board of Directors, hire or solicit for employment any person who is or was employed by the Company during the then immediately preceding 12 months, other than pursuant to a general published solicitation of employment. 
  15.        Expenses and Interest  .  If, after a Change in Control of the Company, (a) a dispute arises with respect to the enforcement of the Executive s rights under this Agreement or (b) any legal or arbitration proceeding shall be brought to enforce or interpret any provision contained herein or to recover damages for breach hereof, in either case so long as the Executive is not acting in bad faith, then the Company shall reimburse the Executive for any reasonable attorneys  fees and necessary costs and disbursements incurred as a result of the dispute, legal or arbitration proceeding ( Expenses ), and prejudgment interest on any money judgment or arbitration award obtained by the Executive calculated at the rate of interest announced by The Bank of New York, from time to time at its prime or base lending rate from the date that payments to him or her should have been made under this Agreement.  Within ten (10) days after the Executive s written request therefor (but in no event later than the end of the calendar year following the calendar year in which such Expense is incurred), the Company shall reimburse the Executive, or such other person or entity as the Executive may designate in writing to the Company, the Executive s reasonable Expenses. 
  
   17 

16.        Payment Obligations Absolute  .  The Company s obligation during and after the Employment Period to pay the Executive the amounts and to make the benefit and other arrangements provided herein shall be absolute and unconditional and shall not be affected by any circumstances, including, without limitation, any setoff, counterclaim, recoupment, defense or other right which the Company may have against him or anyone else.  Except as provided in Section 15, all amounts payable by the Company hereunder shall be paid without notice or demand.  Each and every payment made hereunder by the Company shall be final, and the Company will not seek to recover all or any part of such payment from the Executive, or from whomsoever may be entitled thereto, for any reason whatsoever. 
  17.        Successors  . 
  (a)        If the Company sells, assigns or transfers all or substantially all of its business and assets to any Person or if the Company merges into or consolidates or otherwise combines (where the Company does not survive such combination) with any Person (any such event, a  Sale of Business ), then the Company shall assign all of its right, title and interest in this Agreement as of the date of such event to such Person, and the Company shall cause such Person, by written agreement in form and substance reasonably satisfactory to the Executive, to expressly assume and agree to perform from and after the date of such assignment all of the terms, conditions and provisions imposed by this Agreement upon the Company.  Failure of the Company to obtain such agreement prior to the effective date of such Sale of Business shall be a breach of this Agreement constituting  Good Reason  hereunder, except that for purposes of implementing the foregoing the date upon which such Sale of Business becomes effective shall be deemed the Termination Date.  In case of such assignment by the Company and of assumption and agreement by such Person, as used in this Agreement,  Company  shall thereafter mean such Person which executes and delivers the agreement provided for in this Section 17 or which otherwise becomes bound by all the terms and provisions of this Agreement by operation of law, and this Agreement shall inure to the benefit of, and be enforceable by, such Person.  The Executive shall, in his or her discretion, be entitled to proceed against any or all of such Persons, any Person which theretofore was such a successor to the Company and the Company (as so defined) in any action to enforce any rights of the Executive hereunder.  Except as provided in this Section 17(a), this Agreement shall not be assignable by the Company.  This Agreement shall not be terminated by the voluntary or involuntary dissolution of the Company. 
  (b)        This Agreement and all rights of the Executive shall inure to the benefit of and be enforceable by the Executive s personal or legal representatives, executors, administrators, heirs and beneficiaries.  All amounts payable to the Executive under Sections 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 15 if the Executive had lived shall be paid, in the event of the Executive s death, to the Executive s estate, heirs and representatives;   provided, however, that   the foregoing shall not be construed to modify any terms of any benefit plan of the Employer, as such terms are in effect on the date of the Change in Control of the Company, that expressly govern benefits under such plan in the event of the Executive s death. 
  18.        Severability  .  The provisions of this Agreement shall be regarded as divisible, and if any of said provisions or any part hereof are declared invalid or unenforceable by a court of competent jurisdiction, the validity and enforceability of the remainder of such provisions or parts hereof and the applicability thereof shall not be affected thereby. 
  
   18 

19.        Contents of Agreement; Waiver of Rights; Amendment  .  This Agreement sets forth the entire understanding between the parties hereto with respect to the subject matter hereof, and the Executive hereby waives all rights under, any prior or other agreement or understanding between the parties with respect to such subject matter.  This Agreement may not be amended or modified at any time except by written instrument executed by the Company and the Executive. 
  20.        Withholding  .  The Company shall be entitled to withhold from amounts to be paid to the Executive hereunder any federal, state or local withholding or other taxes or charges which it is from time to time required to withhold;   provided that   the amount so withheld shall not exceed the minimum amount required to be withheld by law unless otherwise elected by the Executive in writing.  In addition, if prior to the date of payment of the Termination Payment or Prorated Bonus hereunder, the Federal Insurance Contributions Act (FICA) tax imposed under Sections 3101, 3121(a) and 3121(v)(2) of the Code, where applicable, becomes due with respect to any payment or benefit to be provided hereunder, the Company may provide for an immediate payment of the amount needed to pay the Executive s portion of such tax (plus an amount equal to the taxes that will be due on such amount) and the Executive s Termination Payment or Prorated Bonus shall be reduced accordingly.  The Company shall be entitled to rely on an opinion of the National Tax Counsel if any question as to the amount or requirement of any such withholding shall arise. 
  21.        Certain Rules of Construction  .  No party shall be considered as being responsible for the drafting of this Agreement for the purpose of applying any rule construing ambiguities against the drafter or otherwise.  No draft of this Agreement shall be taken into account in construing this Agreement.  Any provision of this Agreement which requires an agreement in writing shall be deemed to require that the writing in question be signed by the Executive and an authorized representative of the Company. 
  22.        Governing Law; Resolution of Disputes  .  This Agreement and the rights and obligations hereunder shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of Wisconsin, without reference to conflict of law principles thereof.  Any dispute arising out of this Agreement shall, at the Executive s election, be determined by arbitration under the rules of the American Arbitration Association then in effect (in which case both parties shall be bound by the arbitration award) or by litigation.  Whether the dispute is to be settled by arbitration or litigation, the venue for the arbitration or litigation shall be Milwaukee, Wisconsin or, at the Executive s election, if the Executive is not then residing or working in the Milwaukee, Wisconsin metropolitan area, in the judicial district encompassing the city in which the Executive resides;   provided, that  , if the Executive is not then residing in the United States, the election of the Executive with respect to such venue shall be either Milwaukee, Wisconsin or in the judicial district encompassing that city in the United States among the thirty cities having the largest population (as determined by the most recent United States Census data available at the Termination Date) which is closest to the Executive s residence.  The parties consent to personal jurisdiction in each trial court in the selected venue having subject matter jurisdiction notwithstanding their residence or situs, and each party irrevocably consents to service of process in the manner provided hereunder for the giving of notices. 
  
   19 

23.        Additional Section 409A Provisions  .   
  (a)        If, after the date of a Change in Control of the Company, any payment amount or the value of any benefit under this Agreement is required to be included in the Executive s income prior to the date such amount is actually paid or the benefit provided as a result of the failure of this Agreement (or any other arrangement that is required to be aggregated with this Agreement under Code Section 409A) to comply with Code Section 409A, then the Executive shall receive a distribution, in a lump sum, within 90 days after the date it is finally determined that the Agreement (or such other arrangement that is required to be aggregated with this Agreement) fails to meet the requirements of Section 409A of the Code; such distribution shall equal the amount required to be included in the Executive s income as a result of such failure and shall reduce the amount of payments or benefits otherwise due hereunder.   
  (b)        The Company and the Executive intend the terms of this Agreement to be in compliance with Section 409A of the Code.  The Company does not guarantee the tax treatment or tax consequences associated with any payment or benefit, including but not limited to consequences related to Section 409A of the Code.  To the maximum extent permissible, any ambiguous terms of this Agreement shall be interpreted in a manner that avoids a violation of Section 409A of the Code. 
  (c)        If the Executive believes he is entitled to a payment or benefit pursuant to the terms of this Agreement that was not timely paid or provided, and such payment or benefit is considered deferred compensation subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the Executive acknowledges that to avoid an additional tax on such payment or benefit pursuant to the provisions of Section 409A of the Code, the Executive must make a reasonable, good faith effort to collect such payment or benefit   no later than 90 days   after the latest date upon which the payment could have been timely made or benefit timely provided without violating Section 409A of the Code, and if not paid or provided, must take further enforcement measures   within 180 days   after such latest date. 
  24.        Notice  .  Notices given pursuant to this Agreement shall be in writing and, except as otherwise provided by Section 13(d), shall be deemed given when actually received by the Executive or actually received by the Company s Secretary or any officer of the Company other than the Executive.  If mailed, such notices shall be mailed by United States registered or certified mail, return receipt requested, addressee only, postage prepaid, if to the Company, to Fiserv, Inc., Attention:  Corporate Secretary (or President, if the Executive is then the Corporate Secretary), 255 Fiserv Drive, Brookfield, Wisconsin 53045, or if to the Executive, at the address set forth below the Executive s signature to this Agreement, or to such other address as the party to be notified shall have theretofore given to the other party in writing. 
  25.        No Waiver  .  No waiver by either party at any time of any breach by the other party of, or compliance with, any condition or provision of this Agreement to be performed by the other party shall be deemed a waiver of similar or dissimilar provisions or conditions at the same time or any prior or subsequent time. 
  26.        Headings  .  The headings herein contained are for reference only and shall not affect the meaning or interpretation of any provision of this Agreement. 
  
   20 

IN WITNESS WHEREOF, the parties have executed this Agreement as of the day and year first above written. 
    
                   FISERV, INC. 

By: 
      
    /s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki 

Jeffery W. Yabuki 

President and CEO 

EXECUTIVE: 

/s/ Devin B. McGranahan 
      Devin B. McGranahan 

21 

</EX-10.34>

<EX-10.35>
 13
 ex103512312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.35

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.35 

FISERV, INC. NONQUALIFIED DEFERRED COMPENSATION PLAN 
    
  1.        PURPOSE OF THE PLAN. 
  The purpose of this Plan is to establish a deferred compensation program for certain key management and highly-compensated associates of Fiserv, Inc., a Wisconsin corporation (the  Company ) and any of its U.S. subsidiaries, permitting such associates to defer the receipt of compensation from the Company or such U.S. subsidiary. 
  2.        DEFINITIONS. 
  As used in this Plan, the following capitalized terms shall have the indicated meaning. 
     Annual Enrollment Form    means, with respect to each Participant and any calendar year, the form specified by the Plan Administrator, as completed and delivered to the Company by each Participant pursuant to such specific deadlines as may exist from time to time pursuant to the Plan. 
     Beneficiary    has the meaning set forth in Section 8 hereof.  
     Board    means the Board of Directors of the Company. 
     Bonus Compensation    means any cash compensation earned by a Participant pursuant to a written incentive plan of the Company with respect to any calendar year. 
     Bonus Deferral Election    means an election to defer all or a portion of a Participant s Bonus Compensation as set forth in the Participant s Annual Enrollment Form. 
     Business Day    means any day on which both (i) the National Association of Securities Dealers Automated Quotation System ( NASDAQ ) is open for trading and (ii) each of the Company, the Trustee, each Investment and any record keeper retained by the Plan Administrator is open for business. 
     Change of Control    means, with respect to a Participant, the occurrence of one or more of the following events with respect to the Company or the subsidiary that employs (or employed) such Participant (either, the  Employer ): 
  (a)        Any person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined in accordance with Section 409A) acquires (or has acquired during the 12-month period ending on the date of the most recent acquisition by such person or persons) ownership of securities of the Employer representing thirty percent (30%) or more of the combined voting power of the Employer s then outstanding Voting Securities; 
  (b)        Any person or more than one person acting as a group (as determined in accordance with Section 409A) acquires ownership of securities of the Employer that, together with securities held by such person or group, constitutes more than fifty percent (50%) of the total fair market value or total voting power of the securities of the Employer; 

(c)        The date a majority of the members of the Board of Directors of the Employer becomes replaced, during any twelve (12) month period, by directors whose appointment or election to such board was not endorsed by a majority of the members of such board before the date of such appointment or election; or 
  (d)        the Employer transfers substantially all of its assets to another person, or more than one person acting as a group, in accordance with Section 409A. 
     Code    means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended.  Any reference to a specific provision of the Code includes any successor provision thereto. 
     Company    means Fiserv, Inc., a corporation organized under the laws of the State of Wisconsin, or any successor corporation. 
     Deferral Account    means, with respect to each Participant, the book-keeping record maintained by the Company for each Participant in accordance with the terms of this Plan. 
     Eligible Employee    means an employee of the Company or a U.S. subsidiary who is (a) employed in the U.S. and (b) whose annual base salary is equal to or greater than the compensation limit in effect under Code Section 401(a)(17) for the year.  The determination of annual base salary, and thus which associates are considered Eligible Employees for the following year, shall be made at the time the Plan Administrator distributes the Annual Enrollment Form. 
     ERISA    means the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974, as amended. 
     Fair Market Value    means, with respect to any Investment, the closing price on the date of reference, or if there were no sales on such date, then the closing price on the nearest preceding day on which there were such sales, and in the case of an unlisted security, the mean between the bid and asked prices on the date of reference, or if no such prices are available for such date, then the mean between the bid and asked prices on the nearest preceding day for which such prices are available.  With respect to any Investment which reports  net asset values  or similar measures of the value of an ownership interest in the Investment, Fair Market Value shall mean such closing net asset value on the date of reference, or if no net asset value was reported on such date, then the net asset value on the nearest preceding day on which such net asset value was reported.  For any Investment not described in the preceding sentences, Fair Market Value shall mean the value of the Investment as determined by the Plan Administrator in its reasonable judgment on a consistent basis, based upon such available and relevant information as the Plan Administrator determines to be appropriate. 
     Installment Distribution Option    means the distribution option for a Participant s Retirement Account as described in Section 7(b)(i) hereof. 
      Investment    means the deemed investment options as may be designated from time to time by the Company in its sole and absolute discretion. 
     Lump Sum Distribution Option    means the distribution option for a Participant s Retirement Account as described in Section 7(b)(ii) hereof. 
  
   2 

Participant    means an Eligible Employee who has made a deferral election under the Plan.  Where the context so requires, the term  Participant  shall include a person who has a Deferral Account under the Plan, including a Beneficiary who obtains benefits under this Plan in accordance with its terms. 
     Permitted Retirement Date    means the date on which a Participant both has (i) completed at least ten (10) years of full-time employment with the Company or any subsidiary, and (ii) is at least 55 years old. 
     Plan    means this Fiserv, Inc. Nonqualified Deferred Compensation Plan, as it may be amended from time to time. 
     Plan Administrator    means the Compensation Committee of the Board. 
     Retirement Account    means, with respect to each Participant, that portion of a Participant s Deferral Account which is determined in accordance with Section 6(d) hereof. 
     Salary Compensation    means any base salary payable by, plus any commission compensation (payable in cash) earned from, the Company or subsidiary in any calendar year, without reduction for the amount of any contributions made by the Company or subsidiary on behalf of Participant under any salary reduction or similar arrangement to a qualified deferred compensation, pension or cafeteria plan, contributions toward a simplified employee pension plan described in Section 408(k) of the Code, and/or contributions of elective contributions pursuant to an arrangement qualified under Section 401(k) of the Code; provided, however, that in no event shall  Salary Compensation  include any severance payments or other compensation which is paid to Participant as a result of the Participant s termination of employment with the Company or subsidiary. Notwithstanding anything herein to the contrary, in no event shall Salary Compensation include Bonus Compensation.  For purposes hereof, commissions are considered earned in the calendar year in which the customer remits payment to the Company or subsidiary. 
     Salary Deferral Election    means an election to defer a portion of a Participant s Salary Compensation pursuant to the Plan and as set forth in the Participant s Annual Enrollment Form. 
     Section 409A    means Section 409A of the Code and any guidance promulgated thereunder. 
     Section 409A Affiliate    means each entity that is required to be aggregated with the Company pursuant to Code Section 414(b) or (c); provided, however, that for purposes of determining if a Participant has incurred a Separation from Service, the phrase  at least 50 percent  shall be used in place of the phrase  at least 80 percent  each place it appears therein or in the regulations thereunder. 
     Separation from Service    means a Participant s Termination of Employment, or if the Participant continues to provide services following his or her Termination of Employment, such later date as is considered a separation from service from the Company and its Section 409A Affiliates within the meaning of Section 409A.  Specifically, if the Participant continues to provide services to the Company or a Section 409A Affiliate in a capacity other than as an employee, such shift in status is not automatically a Separation from Service. 
  
   3 

Specified Date Account    means, with respect to each Participant, that portion of the Participant s Deferral Account which is determined in accordance with Section 6(d) hereof. 
     Specified Employee    means all Participants under the Plan, but only if, on the date of such Participant s Separation from Service, the Company or any other entity that is considered a  service recipient  with respect to the Participant within the meaning of Code Section 409A has stock which is publicly traded on an established securities market (within the meaning of Treasury Regulation Section 1.897-1(m)) or otherwise. 
     Sub Account    means, with respect to any Participant, the Participant s Retirement Account or any Specified Date Account. 
     Termination Date    means, with respect to each Participant, the date of the Participant s termination of employment.  Termination of employment shall be presumed to occur when the Company and a Participant reasonably anticipate that no further services will be performed by the Participant for the Company and its Section 409A Affiliates or that the level of bona fide services a Participant will perform as an employee of the Company and its Section 409A Affiliates will permanently decrease to no more than twenty percent (20%) of the average level of bona fide services performed by the Participant (whether as an employee or independent contractor) for the Company and its Section 409A Affiliates over the immediately preceding 36- month period (or such lesser period of services).  Whether a Participant has experienced a termination of employment shall be determined by the Company in good faith and consistent with Section 409A.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if a Participant takes a leave of absence for purposes of military leave, sick leave or other bona fide reason, the Participant will not be deemed to have experienced a termination of employment for the first six (6) months of the leave of absence, or if longer, for so long as the Participant s right to reemployment is provided either by statute or by contract; provided that if the leave of absence is due to a medically determinable physical or mental impairment that can be expected to result in death or last for a continuous period of not less than six (6) months, where such impairment causes the Participant to be unable to perform the duties of his or her position of employment or any substantially similar position of employment, the leave may be extended by the Company for up to twenty-nine (29) months without causing a termination of employment. 
     Trust    means the trust created pursuant to the Trust Agreement. 
     Trust Agreement    means the Trust Agreement entered into by and between the Company and the Trustee, as may be amended from time to time. 
     Trustee    means the trustee of the Trust.  The Trustee shall at all times be a bank with trust powers.  The initial and any successor Trustee shall be as selected by the Company. 
     Unforeseeable Emergency    means in accordance with Section 409A, (1) a severe financial hardship to the Participant resulting from an illness or accident of the Participant, the Participant s spouse, the Participant s beneficiary, or the Participant s dependent; (2) loss of the Participant s property due to casualty; or (3) any other similar extraordinary and unforeseeable circumstances arising as a result of events beyond the control of the Participant, as determined by the Plan Administrator. 
  
   4 

Voting Securities    means any security which ordinarily possesses the power to vote in the election of the Board of Directors of the Employer without the happening of any precondition or contingency. 
  3.        ADMINISTRATION. 
  The Plan shall be administered by the Plan Administrator.  The Plan Administrator shall have the authority to adopt, alter and repeal such rules, guidelines and practices governing the Plan as it shall, from time to time, deem advisable; to interpret the terms and provisions of the Plan and any agreements relating thereto; and to otherwise supervise the administration of the Plan.  All decisions made by the Plan Administrator pursuant to the provisions of the Plan shall be made in the Plan Administrator s sole discretion and shall be final and binding on all persons, including Participants.  The Plan Administrator may delegate some or all of its duties hereunder to such other persons or entities as it shall designate, and in such event, references herein to the Plan Administrator shall include such person or entity to the extent of such delegation. 
  Without limiting the generality of the foregoing, the Plan Administrator shall have the following powers and duties: 
  (a)        To require any person to furnish such reasonable information as may be requested for the purpose of the proper administration of the Plan as a condition to receiving any benefits under the Plan; 
  (b)        To make and enforce such rules and regulations and prescribe the use of such forms as it shall deem necessary for the efficient administration of the Plan; 
  (c)        To determine the amount of benefits that shall be payable to any person in accordance with the provisions of the Plan, and to provide a full and fair review to any Participant whose claim for benefits has been denied in whole or in part; 
  (d)        To employ at the expense of the Company other persons (who may or may not be employed by the Company) to assist the Plan Administrator in carrying out its duties under the terms of the Plan; 
  (e)        To keep records of all acts and determinations, and to keep all such records, books of account, data and other documents as may be necessary for the proper administration of the Plan; 
  (f)        To prepare and distribute to all Participants and Beneficiaries information concerning the Plan and their rights under the Plan; 
  (g)        To exercise any powers reserved to the Company under the Trust executed in connection with this Plan, including but not limited to the power to provide investment guidelines to the trustee under the Trust; and 
  (h)        To do all things necessary to operate and administer the Plan in accordance with its provisions. 
  
   5 

4.        DEFERRED COMPENSATION. 
  (a)        Salary Deferrals  .  An Eligible Employee may elect to defer the receipt of up to one hundred percent (100%) of his or her Salary Compensation as designated by him/her pursuant to a Salary Deferral Election set forth on the Annual Enrollment Form. 
  (b)        Bonus Deferrals  .  An Eligible Employee may elect to defer the receipt of up to one hundred percent (100%) of his or her Bonus Compensation as designated by him/her pursuant to a Bonus Deferral Election set forth on the Annual Enrollment Form. 
  (c)      Annual Enrollment  . 
  (i)        In order for a Salary Deferral Election to be effective, an Annual Enrollment Form containing a Salary Deferral Election must be completed, signed, and delivered to the Company prior to the first day of the calendar year for which the election is to be effective.  Such election shall be irrevocable as of December 31 and shall be effective on the immediately following January 1.  Such election shall apply to all Salary Compensation paid (or with respect to commissions, earned) in the calendar year for which the election is effective.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, a Participant s Salary Deferral Election made for the 2011 calendar year shall be irrevocable as of December 31, 2010 but shall apply only to salary paid on or after February 1, 2011.  A Participant s Salary Deferral Election shall not carry over from year to year; each Eligible Employee that desires to make Salary Deferrals for a future calendar year must complete a Salary Deferral Election form for such year. 
  (ii)        In order for a Bonus Deferral Election to be effective, an Annual Enrollment Form containing a Bonus Deferral Election must be completed, signed, and delivered to the Company prior to the first day of the calendar year in which the Participant provides the services to which such Bonus Compensation relates as determined in accordance with Section 409A or such later time as permitted under Section 409A with respect to any  performance-based compensation  as defined therein.  Such election shall be irrevocable as of the last day on which an election may be made.  A Participant s Bonus Deferral Election shall not carry over from year to year; each Eligible Employee that desires to make Bonus Deferrals for a future calendar year must complete a Bonus Deferral Election form for such year. 
  5.        DEFERRAL ACCOUNTS. 
  (a)        Any compensation deferred pursuant to Section 5 of this Plan shall be credited to the Deferral Account maintained in the name of the Participant.  Deferral Accounts shall be bookkeeping accounts maintained on the Company s or subsidiary s records, as applicable.  A Deferral Account shall be credited (i) with respect to deferrals of Salary Compensation, on the same day of each month on which cash compensation would otherwise have been paid to a Participant, with a dollar amount equal to the total amount by which the Participant s cash compensation for such month was reduced in accordance with the Participant s Salary Deferral Election, and (ii) with respect to deferrals of Bonus Compensation, on the date such bonus compensation would otherwise have been paid to the Participant in accordance with the Company s normal practices. 
  
   6 

(b)        The credit balance of the Deferral Account for each Participant shall be deemed to have been invested and reinvested from time to time in such Investments as shall be designated by the Participant in accordance with the following: 
  (i)        Upon commencement of participation in the Plan, each Participant shall make a designation of the Investments which the Participant desires to have deemed to be purchased with the amounts credited to the Participant s Deferral Account in accordance with Section 5(a) hereof.  All such deemed purchases of Investments with respect to such amounts shall be deemed to have occurred on the day on which the deferrals are credited to the Participant s Deferral Account, unless such day is not a Business Day, in which event the deemed purchase shall be deemed to have occurred on the first Business Day following such day. 
  (ii)        Each Participant shall have the right, by giving notice to the Plan Administrator to (A) change the existing Investments in which the Participant s Deferral Account is deemed to be invested by deeming a portion of the existing Investments in the Participant s Account to have been sold and the new Investments purchased; and (B) change the Investments which are deemed to be purchased with future credits to the Participant s Deferral Account pursuant to Sections 5(b)(i).  Such changes shall be made in such specific manner as shall be specified from time to time by the Plan Administrator.  Any such change shall be effective as of the day given so long as such day is a Business Day and the notice of such change is given by 4:00 P.M. Eastern Standard Time on such day.  Otherwise, such change shall be effective on the Business Day immediately following the date of such notice. 
  (iii)        In the case of any deemed purchase, the Deferral Account shall be debited with a dollar amount equal to the quantity and kind of the Investment deemed to have been purchased multiplied by the Fair Market Value of such Investment on the date of reference and shall be credited with the quantity and kind of Investment so deemed to have been purchased.  In the case of any deemed sale of an Investment, the Deferral Account shall be debited with the quantity and kind of Investment deemed to have been sold, and shall be credited with a dollar amount equal to the quantity and kind of Investment deemed to have been sold multiplied by the Fair Market Value of such Investment on the data of reference. 
  (iv)        In no event shall the Company or any subsidiary be under any obligation, as a result of any designation of Investments made by Participants, to acquire assets (or to cause the Trust to acquire assets) which correspond with any such Investments. 
  (c)        The Company shall, within the 45-day period following the close of each quarter during each calendar year (March 31, June 30, September 30 and December 31), furnish each Participant with a statement of the balance of the Participant s Deferral Account and all Sub Accounts, showing all debits and credits thereto in accordance with the terms of this Plan. 
  (d)        A Participant s Deferral Account shall be divided into separate Retirement and Specified Date Accounts which shall be Sub Accounts determined in accordance with this Section 5(d) as follows: 
  (i)        A Participant s Retirement Account shall initially be credited with the portion of the Salary Compensation and the Bonus Compensation credited to a Participant s Deferral Account pursuant to Section 5(a) hereof which is specified by the  
  
   7 

Participant on his Annual Enrollment Form for such calendar year to be credited to the Participant s Retirement Account.  A Participant shall have only 1 Retirement Account. 
  (ii)        A Participant s Specified Date Account for any specified year shall initially be credited with the portion of the Salary Compensation and the Bonus Compensation credited to a Participant s Specified Date Account pursuant to Section 5(a) hereof which is specified by the Participant to be credited to the Participant s Specified Date Account for such specified year on his Annual Enrollment Form for such calendar year.  The Specified Date Accounts must provide for payment to be deferred to a calendar year that is at least two full calendar years following the date of the Participant s election.  If a Participant designates a Specified Date Account pursuant to any Annual Enrollment Form which is not permitted by the immediately preceding sentence, such designation of Specified Date Account shall be deemed null and void and all amounts otherwise designated by the Participant to be credited to such Specified Date Account shall instead be credited to the Participant s Retirement Account. 
  (iii)        A Participant may make separate deemed Investment designations with respect to each Sub Account of the Participant s Deferral Account by specifying, in writing and on such forms as the Plan Administrator shall designate for such purpose, the percentage of the credit balance of each such Sub Account that is to be deemed to be invested in a particular Investment. 
  (e)        A Participant s Deferral Account (and Sub Accounts thereof) shall be debited in an amount equal to the amount of cash distributed to the Participant or the Participant s Beneficiary pursuant to Section 7 hereof. 
  (f)        In determining the amounts of all debits and credits to Deferral Accounts and Sub Accounts, the Plan Administrator shall exercise its reasonable best judgment, and all such determinations (in the absence of bad faith) shall be binding upon all Participants and their Beneficiaries.  If an error is discovered in the Deferral Account or any Sub Account of a Participant, the Plan Administrator, in its sole and absolute discretion, shall cause appropriate, equitable adjustments to be made as soon as administratively practicable following the discovery of such error or omission. 
  6.        THE TRUST. 
  (a)        The Company may enter into a Trust Agreement creating the Trust for the purposes specified therein and herein.  Any such Trust is intended to be a  grantor trust  with the result that the corpus and income of the trust be treated as assets and income of the Company for federal income tax purposes pursuant to Subpart E, Part I, Subchapter J, Chapter 1, Subtitle A of the Code.  All amounts contributed to the Trust shall remain the assets of the Company or subsidiary, as the case may be, subject to the terms and conditions of the Trust Agreement. 
  (b)        The Company or the subsidiary, as applicable, may contribute to the Trust such funds from time to time as it determines to satisfy the Company s or subsidiary s obligation, in whole or part, to pay amounts due hereunder; provided that no such contributions shall be made if such contributions would cause tax to become payable under Section 409A(b). 
  
   8 

(c)        The Company or the subsidiary, as the case may be, shall remain primarily liable to make payments to Participants and their Beneficiaries pursuant to this Plan and the Company s or subsidiary s contribution of amounts to the Trust shall not satisfy the Company s or subsidiary s obligation to make payments to Participants and/or Beneficiaries pursuant to this Plan.  Distributions from the Trust to Participants or Beneficiaries will, however, be applied in satisfaction of such obligation of the Company or subsidiary to make payments pursuant to Section 7 hereof. 
  7.        DISTRIBUTIONS. 
  (a)        Specified Date Accounts  . 
  (i)        Specified Date  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7(a), a Participant shall be paid an amount equal to the credit balance of the Participant s Specified Date Account by January 31st of the year specified for such Specified Date Account. 
  (ii)        Separation from Service  .  If a Participant s Separation from Service occurs prior to payment of a Specified Date Account pursuant to Section 7(a)(i), the Participant shall be paid an amount equal to the credit balance of such Specified Date Account within thirty-one (31) days of the Participant s Separation from Service; provided that if the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of Separation from Service, the payment shall be made within thirty-one (31) days following the first day of the seventh (7th) month after the month in which occurs the Participant s Separation from Service (or within thirty-one (31) days following the Participant s death if the Participant dies during such six-month period). 
  (iii)        Change of Control  .  If there is a Change of Control applicable to a Participant prior to the payment of a Specified Date Account pursuant to Section 7(a)(i) or 7(a)(ii) hereof, a Participant shall be paid an amount equal to the credit balance of such Specified Date Account within thirty-one (31) days following such Change of Control. 
  (b)      Retirement Account  . 
  (i)        Separation from Service After Permitted Retirement Date or Due to Death  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7(b), if a Participant s Separation from Service occurs after the Participant s Permitted Retirement Date, or prior to the Participant s Permitted Retirement Date due to the Participant s death, then the Participant (or Beneficiary in the event of the Participant s death) shall be paid an amount equal to the credit balance of the Participant s Retirement Account pursuant to the distribution option set forth below that was specifically selected by the Participant pursuant to the Participant s initial Annual Enrollment Form: 
  (A)        Installment Distribution Option  .  If the Participant selects the  Installment Distribution Option,  the Participant (or Beneficiary in the event of the Participant s death) shall receive annual payments commencing on any day which is no more than thirty-one (31) days following the Participant s Separation from Service and continuing annually thereafter (beginning with the calendar year following the calendar year in which the first payment is made) on or before January 31st of each year for two (2) to fifteen (15) years (as selected by the Participant in the Participant s initial  
  
   9 

Annual Enrollment Form); provided that if the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of Separation from Service, any payment(s) that would have otherwise been made during the first six months following the Participant s Separation from Service shall be made within thirty-one (31) days following the first day of the seventh (7th) month after the month in which occurs the Participant s Separation from Service (or within thirty-one (31) days following the Participant s death if the Participant dies during such six-month period).  The amount of each annual payment shall be determined by dividing (I) the balance in the Participant s Retirement Account, by (II) the number of payments that remain to be made to the Participant based upon the payout period selected.  For example, if a Participant has selected a 10-year payout period and the first annual payment is to be made on January 31, 2015, the amount of the payment to be made on that date would be the quotient obtained by dividing (w) the balance of the Deferral Account immediately prior to such payment date, by (x) 10; the amount of the payment for January 31, 2016, would be the quotient obtained by dividing (y) the balance of the Retirement Account immediately prior to such payment date in December, Year 1, by (z) 9; and so forth. 
  (B)        Lump Sum Distribution Option  .  If the Participant selects the  Lump Sum Distribution Option , the Participant (or Beneficiary in the event of the Participant s death) shall be paid within thirty-one (31) days after the Participant s Separation from Service an amount equal to the credit balance of the Participant s Retirement Account; provided that if the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of Separation from Service, the payment shall be made within thirty-one (31) days following the first day of the seventh (7th) month after the month in which occurs the Participant s Separation from Service (or within thirty-one (31) days following the Participant s death if the Participant dies during such six-month period). 
  (C)        Change in Distribution Options  .  A Participant shall be entitled to change payout options of the Participant s Retirement Account between those in Sections 7(b)(ii)(A) or (B) above by written notice to the Company.  Such notice must be delivered no less than twelve (12) months prior to the Termination Date and must provide that payments commence at least five (5) years after the date payments otherwise would have commenced.  Any notice of change that does not comply with these terms shall be of no force and effect. 
  (ii)        Separation from Service Prior to Permitted Retirement Date Other than Due to Death  .  Except as otherwise provided in this Section 7(b), if a Participant s Separation from Service occurs prior the Participant s Permitted Retirement Date for any reason other than the Participant s death, then the Participant shall be paid, within thirty-one (31) days after the Participant s Separation from Service, an amount equal to the credit balance of the Participant s Retirement Account; provided that if the Participant is a Specified Employee on the date of Separation from Service, then the payment shall be made within thirty-one (31) days following the first day of the seventh (7th) month after the month in which occurs the Participant s Separation from Service (or within thirty-one (31) days following the Participant s death if the Participant dies during such six-month period). 
  
   10 

(iii)        Change of Control  .  If there is a Change of Control prior to payment with respect to a Participant s Retirement Account pursuant to Section 7(b)(i) or 7(b)(ii) hereof, the Participant shall be paid an amount equal to the credit balance of the Participant s Retirement Account within thirty-one (31) days following such Change of Control. 
  (c)        Unforeseeable Emergency Distributions  .  If a Participant experiences an Unforeseeable Emergency, upon application by the Participant, payments of the then credit balance in the Participant s Deferral Account may be made to the Participant in an amount which the Plan Administrator determines to be reasonably necessary to meet the financial hardship associated with such Unforeseeable Emergency.  The Plan Administrator shall have exclusive authority to determine the circumstances which will constitute an Unforeseeable Emergency.  Notwithstanding the foregoing in no event shall any distributions be made pursuant to this Section 7(c) to the extent that the Plan Administrator determines that the financial hardship related to the Unforeseeable Emergency is or may be relieved (i) through reimbursement or compensation by insurance or otherwise, (ii) by liquidation of the Participant s assets, to the extent the liquidation of such assets would not itself cause severe financial hardship, or (iii) cessation of deferrals under the Plan.  The provisions of this Section 7(c) are intended to comply with the requirements of Section 409A and Treasury Regulation 1.409A-3(i)(3) and shall be interpreted and applied in a manner consistent therewith.  All distributions pursuant to this Section 7(c) shall be debited from each of the Participant s Sub Accounts in proportion to the respective credit balance of each Sub Account. 
  (d)        Income Taxes Due Under Section 409A  .  If a Participant is required to include in gross income for federal income tax purposes any amounts deferred under the Plan prior to actual distribution of such amounts as a result of the Plan s failure to comply with Section 409A with respect to such Participant, then the Company may authorize a payment from the Participant s Deferral Account equal to the amount required to be included in income for federal income tax purposes as a result of such failure. 
  (e)        Withholding and Other Taxes  .  Any payments pursuant to this Section 7 shall be subject to withholding of federal, state and local income taxes and any other applicable withholding or employment taxes.  If prior to the date of distribution of any amount hereunder, the Federal Insurance Contributions Act ( FICA ) tax imposed under Code Sections 3101, 3121(a) and 3121(v)(2), where applicable, becomes due with respect to a Participant s Sub Account(s), then the Company may authorize a payment from the applicable Sub Account(s) equal to the amount needed to pay Participant s portion of such tax, as well as withholding taxes resulting therefrom (including the additional taxes attributable to the pyramiding of such distributions and taxes). 
  8.        BENEFICIARIES. 
  Each Participant shall have the right to designate a beneficiary (a  Beneficiary ) who is to succeed to the Participant s right to receive payments hereunder in the event of the Participant s death.  If either (a) a Participant dies without designating a Beneficiary, (ii) the Beneficiary designated by a Participant is not surviving when a payment is to be made to such person under the Plan, and no contingent Beneficiary has been designated by the Participant, or (iii) the Beneficiary designated by a Participant cannot be located by the Plan Administrator within 1 year from the date benefits are to be paid to such  
  
   11 

person; then, in any of such events, the Beneficiary of such Participant with respect to any benefits that remain payable under the Plan shall be the estate of the Participant.  No designation of Beneficiary shall be valid unless it is in writing, signed by the Participant, dated, and delivered to the Company prior to the date of the Participant s death.  Beneficiaries may be changed by a Participant without the consent of any prior Beneficiaries. 
  9.        RIGHTS UNSECURED; UNFUNDED PLAN; ERISA. 
  This Plan and the Company s or subsidiary s obligations arising hereunder to pay benefits to a Participant or his beneficiary constitutes a mere promise by the Company or subsidiary, as applicable, to make payments in the future in accordance with the terms of this Plan and all Participants and their respective beneficiaries have the status of a general unsecured creditor of the Company or subsidiary, as applicable.  The Company and each subsidiary shall be liable to make the payments of the deferred compensation (as adjusted for earnings or losses thereon) that would otherwise have been paid by it absent a deferral election, and the Company shall not be liable for any payments owed by any subsidiary and each subsidiary shall not be liable for any payments owed by the Company or any other subsidiary.  Neither a Participant nor his beneficiary shall have any rights in or against any specific assets of the Company or any subsidiary, including, without limitation, the assets of the Trust or any assets of the Company or subsidiary which correspond with the Investments in which Participants can deem their Deferral Accounts to be invested. 
  It is the intention of the Company that this Plan and the Company s or any subsidiary s obligations hereunder be unfunded for income tax purposes and for purposes of Title I of ERISA. 
  The Company shall treat this Plan as an unfunded plan maintained for a select group of management associates exempt from Parts 2, 3 and 4 of Title I of ERISA.  The Company shall comply with the reporting and disclosure requirements of Part 1 of Title I of ERISA in accordance with U.S. Department of Labor Regulation  2520.104-23. 
  10.        NAMED FIDUCIARY AND CLAIMS PROCEDURES. 
  (a)        The Plan Administrator is hereby designated as the named fiduciary under the Plan and shall have the authority to control and manage the operation and administration of this Plan, and shall be responsible for establishing and carrying out the terms of this Plan. 
  (i)        If a Participant or Beneficiary believes he or she is entitled to a bigger payment than he or she received, or believes he or she is entitled to a payment that was not made, then within ninety (90) days of the date such individual received or should have received the payment, the individual must file a written claim for benefits with the Plan Administrator. 
  (ii)        If for any reason a claim for benefits under this Plan is denied by the Plan Administrator, the Plan Administrator shall deliver to the claimant a written explanation setting forth the specific reasons for the denial, pertinent references to the Section(s) of this Plan and any other applicable document on which the denial is based, such other data as may be pertinent and information on the procedures to be followed by the claimant in obtaining a review of his claim, all written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant.  For this purpose: 
  
   12 

(A)        The claimant s claim shall be deemed filed when presented in writing to the Plan Administrator. 
  (B)        The Plan Administrator s explanation shall be in writing delivered to the claimant within 90 days of the date the claim is filed. 
  (iii)        The claimant shall have 60 days following his receipt of the denial of the claim to file with the Plan Administrator a written request for review of the denial; provided, however, that to avoid penalties under Section 409A, the claimant s request for review must be filed no later than 180 days after the latest day the payment that is in dispute should have been paid.  For such review, the claimant or his representative may submit pertinent documents and written issues and comments. 
  (iv)        The Plan Administrator shall decide the issue on review and furnish the claimant with a copy within 60 days of receipt of the claimant s request for review of his claim.  The decision on review shall be in writing and shall include specific reasons for the decision, written in a manner calculated to be understood by the claimant, as well as specific references to the pertinent Plan provisions on which the decision is based.  If a copy of the decision is not so furnished to the claimant within such 60 days, the claim shall be deemed denied on review. 
  11.        NONASSIGNABILITY. 
  The rights of a Participant or his Beneficiaries to payments pursuant to this Plan are not subject in any manner to anticipation, alienation, sale, transfer, assignment, pledge, encumbrance, attachment, or garnishment by creditors of the Participant or his Beneficiaries. 
  12.        AMENDMENT OF THE PLAN. 
  The Plan Administrator may amend this Plan at any time, without the consent of the Participants or their Beneficiaries, provided, however, that no amendment shall divest any Participant or Beneficiary of the credit balance of his Deferral Account except to the extent expressly provided otherwise in this Plan. 
  Subject to the above provisions, the Plan Administrator shall have broad authority to amend the Plan to take into account changes in applicable securities and tax laws and accounting rules, as well as other developments. 
  13.        TERMINATION OF THIS PLAN. 
  The Plan Administrator may terminate this Plan at any time.  Upon termination of this Plan, distribution of the credit balance of each Participant s Deferral Account shall be made in the manner and at the time heretofore prescribed, it being the intent that no such termination shall accelerate the payment of any amounts already credited to a Participant s Deferral Account. 
  14.        EXPENSES. 
  Costs of administration of this Plan will be paid by the Company. 
  
   13 

15.        NO SPECIAL EMPLOYMENT RIGHTS. 
  Nothing contained in this Plan shall confer upon any Participant any right with respect to the continuation of his employment by the Company or any subsidiary or interfere in any way with the right of the Company or a subsidiary, subject to the terms of any separate employment agreement to the contrary, at any time to terminate such employment or to increase or decrease the compensation of the Participant from the rate in existence from time to time. 
  16.        NOTICES. 
  (a)        In Writing; Address  .  All notices, demands, consents and other communications provided for in this Plan shall be in writing, shall be given by a method prescribed in Section 16(b) hereof, and shall be given to the party to whom it is addressed at the address set forth below or at such other address as such party hereto may hereafter specify by at least fifteen (15) days prior written notice: 
                 If to the Company: 
    Fiserv, Inc. 
        
    Vice President, Compensation   Benefits 
        
    255 Fiserv Drive 
        
    Brookfield, WI 53045 

If to a Participant: 
    To the address designated by Participant to the 
        
    Company as most recently on file in the Company s 
        
    personnel records. 

(b)        Method  .  Any notice, report or other communication shall be delivered by hand or nationally recognized overnight courier which maintains evidence of receipt, or mailed by United States certified mail, return receipt requested, postage prepaid, deposited in a United States post office or a depository for the receipt of mail regularly maintained by the Post Office.  Any notices, demands, consents or other communication shall be deemed given when received at the address for which such party has given notice in accordance with the provisions hereof.  Refusal to accept delivery at the address specified for the giving of such notice in accordance herewith shall constitute delivery. 
  17.        MISCELLANEOUS. 
  (a)        Headings  .  The headings of the sections of this Plan are inserted solely for convenience and are not to be given controlling effect, or used as an aid in the construction of any provision hereof. 
  (b)        Pronouns  .  All pronouns and any variations thereof shall be deemed to refer to the masculine, feminine, neuter, singular or plural as the identity of the person or persons may require. 
  (c)        Section 409A Compliance  .  The provisions of this Plan, including all definitions, shall be interpreted in a manner consistent with Section 409A. 
  
   14 

Adopted by the Company as of the 16th day of November, 2010. 
                     FISERV, INC. 

By: 
      
    /s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki 

Name: 
    Jeffery W. Yabuki 

Title: 
    President   Chief Executive Officer 

15 

</EX-10.35>

<EX-21.1>
 14
 ex21112312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 21.1 
    
  SUBSIDIARIES OF FISERV, INC.  

Name under which Subsidiary does Business  
       
    State (Country) of Incorporation 
      BillMatrix Corporation 
       
    Delaware 
      Carreker Corporation 
       
    Delaware 
      CheckFree Corporation 
       
    Delaware 
      CheckFree Services Corporation 
       
    Delaware 
      CheckFree Solutions Limited 
       
    United Kingdom 
      CheckFreePay Corporation 
       
    Connecticut 
      Corillian Corporation 
      
    Oregon 
      Fiserv Automotive Solutions, Inc. 
       
    Delaware 
      Fiserv CIR, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      Fiserv (Europe) Limited 
       
    United Kingdom 
      Fiserv Global Services, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Fiserv Investment Solutions, Inc. 
      
    Delaware 
      Fiserv PAR, Inc. 
       
    Wisconsin 
      Fiserv Solutions, LLC 
       
    Wisconsin 
      Information Technology, Inc. 
       
    Nebraska 
      ITI of Nebraska, Inc. 
       
    Nebraska 
      Open Solutions, LLC 
      
    Delaware 
      XP Systems Corporation 
      
    Minnesota 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 15
 ex23112312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 23.1 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM  
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in Registration Statement Nos. 333-04417, 333-28121, 333-34310, 333-145599, 333-143191, 333-163636 and 333-188795 on Form S-8 and Registration Statement No. 333-196419 on Form S-3 of our reports dated   February 23, 2017  , relating to the consolidated financial statements of Fiserv, Inc. and subsidiaries and the effectiveness of Fiserv, Inc. s internal control over financial reporting, appearing in this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Fiserv, Inc. for the year ended December 31,   2016  .  
  /s/ Deloitte   Touche LLP  
  Milwaukee, Wisconsin  
  February 23, 2017    

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 16
 ex31112312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.1 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Jeffery W. Yabuki, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Fiserv, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a. 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a. 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    February 23, 2017 
    By:     
    /s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki 

Jeffery W. Yabuki 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 17
 ex31212312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.2 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  I, Robert W. Hau, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Fiserv, Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a. 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a. 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    February 23, 2017 
    By:     
    /s/ Robert W. Hau 

Robert W. Hau 

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 18
 ex32112312016.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.1 
  CERTIFICATION PURSUANT TO  
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  In connection with the Annual Report on Form 10-K of Fiserv, Inc. (the  Company ) for the year ended December 31,   2016   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Jeffery W. Yabuki, as President and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, and Robert W. Hau, as Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer of the Company, each hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that to the best of his knowledge: 
    
           (1) 
    The Report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 
       
           (2) 
    The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
                        
    By:     
    /s/ Jeffery W. Yabuki 

Jeffery W. Yabuki 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

February 23, 2017 

By: 
    /s/ Robert W. Hau 

Robert W. Hau 

Chief Financial Officer and Treasurer 

February 23, 2017 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 19
 fisv-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 20
 fisv-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 21
 fisv-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 22
 fisv-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 23
 fisv-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 24
 fisv-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

