<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20170206_10-K_edgar_data_815556_0000815556-17-000009_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>14279686</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>269954</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>7144568</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2960588</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>2679162</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1029776</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>79</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>11</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000815556-17-000009.hdr.sgml : 20170206
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20170206111453
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000815556-17-000009
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		97
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20161231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20170206
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20170206

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			FASTENAL CO
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000815556
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	RETAIL-BUILDING MATERIALS, HARDWARE, GARDEN SUPPLY [5200]
		IRS NUMBER:				410948415
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			MN
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-16125
		FILM NUMBER:		17574466

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2001 THEURER BLVD
		CITY:			WINONA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55987
		BUSINESS PHONE:		5074545374

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2001 THEURER BLVD
		CITY:			WINONA
		STATE:			MN
		ZIP:			55987

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000815556-17-000009.txt : 20170206

10-K
 1
 fast1231201610-k.htm
 10-K

Document 

Table of Contents  

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D.C. 20549 
  ____________________________________________________________  
  FORM 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

or 
                 o 
    Transition report pursuant to Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 
        
    For the transition period from                 to                

Commission file number 0-16125 

FASTENAL COMPANY 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

(507) 454-5374 
  (Registrant's telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
                 Title of Each Class 
    Name of Each Exchange on Which Registered 
      Common Stock, par value $.01 per share 
    The NASDAQ Stock Market 
   
 Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: 
  None 
  ____________________________________________________________   
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act    Yes    x      No    o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Exchange Act     Yes    o      No    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant: (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.   Yes    x      No    o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T (  232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).   Yes    x      No    o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant's knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.    o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See definition of  large accelerated filer ,  accelerated filer , and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. 
                        Large Accelerated Filer 
    x 
    Accelerated Filer 
    o 

Non-accelerated Filer 
    o    (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
    Smaller Reporting Company 
    o 

Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange              Act).  Yes    o      No    x 
  The aggregate market value of the Common Stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant as of June 30,   2016  , the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter, was   $12,778,423,898  , based on the closing sale price of the Common Stock on that date. For purposes of determining this number, all executive officers and directors of the registrant as of June 30,   2016   are considered to be affiliates of the registrant. This number is provided only for the purposes of this report on Form 10-K and does not represent an admission by either the registrant or any such person as to the status of such person. 
  As of   January 20, 2017  , the registrant had   289,247,424   shares of Common Stock issued and outstanding. 

Table of Contents  

FASTENAL COMPANY 
  ANNUAL REPORT ON FORM 10-K 
  TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 

PART I  
      
      Item 1. 
      
     Business  
    3 
      Item 1A. 
      
     Risk Factors  
    9 
      Item 1B. 
      
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    14 
      Item 2. 
      
     Properties  
    14 
      Item 3. 
      
     Legal Proceedings  
    15 
      Item 4. 
      
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    15 

PART II  
      
      Item 5. 
      
     Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters, and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    16 
      Item 6. 
      
     Selected Financial Data  
    17 
      Item 7. 
      
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    18 
      Item 7A. 
      
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risks  
    38 
      Item 8. 
      
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    39 
      Item 9. 
      
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    57 
      Item 9A. 
      
     Controls and Procedures  
    57 
      Item 9B. 
      
     Other Information  
    58 

PART III  
      
      Item 10. 
      
     Directors, Executive Officers, and Corporate Governance  
    59 
      Item 11. 
      
     Executive Compensation  
    61 
      Item 12. 
      
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    61 
      Item 13. 
      
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    61 
      Item 14. 
      
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    61 

PART IV  
      
      Item 15. 
      
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    62 
      Item 16. 
      
     Form 10-K Summary  
    63 

Signatures  
    65 

Index to Exhibits  
    66 

Table of Contents  

DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE 
  Portions of our Proxy Statement for the annual meeting of shareholders to be held Tuesday,   April 25, 2017   ('Proxy Statement') are incorporated by reference in Part III. Portions of our   2016   Annual Report to Shareholders are incorporated by reference in Part II. 
  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
  Certain statements contained in this Form 10-K, or in other reports of the Company and other written and oral statements made from time to time by the Company, do not relate strictly to historical or current facts. As such, they are considered 'forward-looking statements' that provide current expectations or forecasts of future events. These forward-looking statements are made pursuant to the safe harbor provisions of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Such statements can be identified by the use of terminology such as anticipate, believe, should, estimate, expect, intend, may, will, plan, goal, project, hope, trend, target, opportunity, and similar words or expressions, or by references to typical outcomes. Any statement that is not a purely historical fact, including estimates, projections, trends, and the outcome of events that have not yet occurred, is a forward-looking statement. Our forward-looking statements generally relate to our expectations regarding the business environment in which we operate, our projections of future performance, our perceived marketplace opportunities, and our strategies, goals, mission, and vision. You should understand that forward-looking statements involve a variety of risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, and may be affected by inaccurate assumptions. Consequently, no forward-looking statement can be guaranteed and actual results may vary materially. Factors that could cause our actual results to differ from those discussed in the forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, economic downturns, weakness in the manufacturing or commercial construction industries, competitive pressure on selling prices, changes in our current mix of products, customers, or geographic locations, changes in our average store size, changes in our purchasing patterns, changes in customer needs, changes in fuel or commodity prices, inclement weather, changes in foreign currency exchange rates, difficulty in adapting our business model to different foreign business environments, failure to accurately predict the market potential of our business strategies, the introduction or expansion of new business strategies, weak acceptance or adoption of our vending or Onsite business models, increased competition in industrial vending or Onsite, difficulty in maintaining installation quality as our industrial vending business expands, the leasing to customers of a significant number of additional industrial vending machines, the failure to meet our goals and expectations regarding store openings, store closings, or expansion of our industrial vending or Onsite operations, changes in the implementation objectives of our business strategies, difficulty in hiring, relocating, training, or retaining qualified personnel, difficulty in controlling operating expenses, difficulty in collecting receivables or accurately predicting future inventory needs, dramatic changes in sales trends, changes in supplier production lead times, changes in our cash position or our need to make capital expenditures, credit market volatility, changes in tax law, changes in the availability or price of commercial real estate, changes in the nature, price, or availability of distribution, supply chain, or other technology (including software licensed from third parties) and services related to that technology, cyber-security incidents, potential liability and reputational damage that can arise if our products are defective, and other risks and uncertainties detailed in this Form 10-K under the heading 'Item 1A. Risk Factors'. Each forward-looking statement speaks only as of the date on which such statement is made, and we undertake no obligation to update any such statement to reflect events or circumstances arising after such date. 

1 

Table of Contents  

PRESENTATION OF DOLLAR AMOUNTS 
  All dollar amounts in this Form 10-K are presented in thousands, except for share and per share information or unless otherwise noted. 
  STOCK SPLIT 
  All information contained in this Form 10-K reflects the two-for-one stock split in 2011. 
  
   2 

Table of Contents  

PART I 

ITEM 1. 
     BUSINESS 
     Note   Information in this section is as of year end unless otherwise noted. The year end is December 31,   2016   unless additional years are included or noted. 
  Our Internet address for corporate and investor information is www.fastenal.com. The information contained on our website or connected to our website is not incorporated by reference into this annual report on Form 10-K and should not be considered part of this report. 
  Overview 
  Fastenal Company (together with our subsidiaries, hereinafter referred to as 'Fastenal' or the 'Company' or by terms such as we, our, or us) began as a partnership in 1967, and was incorporated under the laws of Minnesota in 1968. We opened our first store in 1967 in Winona, Minnesota, a city with a population today of approximately 27,000. We began with a marketing strategy of supplying threaded fasteners to customers in small, medium-sized, and, in subsequent years, large cities. Over time, that mandate has expanded to a broader range of industrial and construction supplies that we break into twelve product lines (described later in this document). The large majority of our transactions are business-to-business, though we also have some 'walk-in' retail business. At the end of 2016, we had   2,503   store locations in 21 countries supported by 14 distribution centers in North America (eleven in the United States, two in Canada, and one in Mexico), and we employed   19,624   people. We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer our customers a full line of products and services from convenient locations, as well as to the high quality of our employees. 
  The following table shows our consolidated net sales for each fiscal year during the last ten years and the number of our store locations at the end of each of the last ten years: 

The following table provides a summary of the store locations we operated at the end of each year, as well as the store openings, closings, and conversions during each year: 

(1)    Panama, Brazil, Colombia, and Chile 
   (2)    China and India 
   (3)    Singapore, Malaysia, and Thailand 
   (4)    The Netherlands, Hungary, United Kingdom, Germany, Czech Republic, Italy, Romania, Poland, and Sweden 
   (5)    South Africa 
   (6)    Converted stores are sites converted from stores to non-store selling locations, net of sites converted from non-store selling locations to stores. 
  
   3 

     Table of Contents  

Our stores represent the foundation of our service approach, putting us close to the customer and providing an efficient means of providing them with a broad range of products and services on a timely basis. We believe there are few companies that offer our store coverage on a national basis. We are constantly evaluating the efficacy of our store network. There are times when this leads us to open new locations. We select these new locations based on their proximity to our distribution network, population statistics, and employment data for manufacturing and non-residential construction. We stock all new stores with inventory drawn from all of our product lines, and over time, our district and store personnel may tailor the inventory offering to the needs of the local customer base. In both 2016 and 2015, we opened new stores at a rate of approximately 2%. Our store  network evaluations also reveal locations that are candidates for closure, consolidation, or conversion, as was the case in 2016 and 2015. This resulted in a net decrease in store locations in each of the last two years. 
  We currently have several versions of selling locations. (1) A 'traditional store' services a wide variety of customers and stocks a wide selection of the products we offer. (2) An 'overseas store' focuses on manufacturing customers and our fastener product line and is the format we typically deploy outside the United States and Canada. (3) A 'strategic account store' is a unique location that sells to multiple large accounts in a market. (4) A 'strategic account site' is similar to a strategic account store, but typically operates out of an existing store rather than from a unique location. (5) An 'Onsite location' is a selling unit located in or near a customer's facility that sells product solely to that customer. Because traditional, overseas, and strategic account stores sell to multiple customers, they are included in our total store count. Neither strategic account sites nor Onsite locations are included in our total store count because strategic account sites operate from an existing store location and Onsite locations represent a customer subset of an existing store location. 
  We have long maintained that marketplace demographics could support a North American network of 3,500 stores. We continue to believe this, but since establishing this figure our strategy has changed. Store openings, at least in their historical sense (the 'traditional store'), are no longer our primary growth driver. At this point, the emergence of, and increased investment in, new growth drivers and business models make it unlikely that we will approach the total store potential of North America. These new growth drivers include industrial vending, Onsite locations, and end market growth investments (CSP 16, for example), as well as the investment in sales personnel (both store and non-store) to support them. These represent alternative means to address the requirements of certain customer groups. They also get us even closer to our customers than the traditional store, which has always been core to Fastenal s strategy and an effective means of providing differentiated and 'sticky' service that is very difficult for large and small competitors to replicate. These growth drivers appear to have substantial market opportunities of their own. For instance, we believe the market could support approximately 1.7 million industrial vending machines. We have also identified over 15,000 customer locations with potential to implement the Onsite service model.  We remain committed to a large, robust store network; it remains the indispensable foundation of our business. Still, our store count peaked in 2013 and has declined in each of the three years since, and more often than not going forward, it will likely be difficult to know if our total store count will increase or decrease in any given year.  In contrast, we expect to grow our installed base of industrial vending machines and increase our Onsite locations meaningfully over time. 
  We plan to open additional selling locations outside of the United States in the future. The selling locations outside of the United States contributed approximately 12% of our consolidated net sales in   2016  , with approximately 49% and 30% of this amount attributable to our Canadian and Mexican operations, respectively. 
  It has been our experience that our profitability is affected by the age of our store base. New stores tend to be less profitable due to start-up costs and the time necessary to generate a customer base. A new store generates most of its sales from direct sales calls, a slow process involving repeated contacts. As a result of this process, sales volume builds slowly and it typically requires at least ten to twelve months for a new store to achieve its first profitable month. To illustrate, of the 17 stores opened in the first quarter of 2016, nine were profitable in the fourth quarter of 2016. It has also been our experience that when these new stores mature and increase their sales base, their profitability similarly increases. 
  
   4 

     Table of Contents  

The data in the following table shows the change in the average sales of our stores from   2015   to   2016   based on the age of each store. The stores opened in   2016   contributed approximately $14,900 (or approximately 0.4%) of our consolidated net sales in   2016  , with the remainder coming from stores opened prior to   2016   or from our non-store business. Included in the average monthly sales amounts are sales from our non-store selling locations, such as our Holo-Krome        business (included in the 2009 group, the year it was acquired) and our Onsite locations. Onsite locations are considered an extension of the store in which the customer relationship originated; therefore, we include the average sales of our Onsite locations in the year in which the 'home store' opened. 

(1)    We closed 144 and 50 stores in   2016   and   2015  , respectively. The number of closed stores is noted in the table above as   2016   number/  2015   number.  
   (2)    We converted 16 and six stores to non-store selling locations in 2016 and 2015, respectively, and converted one non-store selling location to a store in 2016. The number of net converted stores is noted in the table above as   2016   number/  2015   number.  
   (3)    The average monthly sales include sales from stores open for less than the full fiscal year. 
  We introduced our industrial vending offering in 2008. The initiative began to gain significant traction in 2011, and has since been an expanding component of our business. From the start, we believed vending could be transformative to industrial distribution because it provided our customers the benefits of reduced consumption, reduced purchase orders, reduced product handling, and 24-hour product availability. We also believed we had a  first mover  advantage with the technology and a market advantage by virtue of our extensive store network. With approximately 62,800 units in the field at the end of 2016, vending is not a new initiative for us. However, we believe it has proven its effectiveness in strengthening our relationships with customers and helped to streamline the supply chain where it has been utilized. We also believe there remains considerable room between our current installed base and the potential installed base of the market. As a result, we anticipate continued growth in installed units over time.  
  We operate eleven regional distribution centers in the United States   Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, Washington, California, Utah, North Carolina, and Kansas, and three outside the United States   Ontario, Canada; Alberta, Canada; and Nuevo Leon, Mexico. These 14 distribution centers give us approximately 3.5 million square feet of distribution capacity. These distribution centers are located so as to permit deliveries of two to five times per week to our stores using our trucks and overnight delivery by surface common carrier. As the number of our selling locations increases, we intend to add new distribution centers. The distribution centers in Indiana and California also serve as a 'master' hub to support the needs of the stores in their geographic region as well as provide a broader selection of products for the stores serviced by the other distribution centers. 
  We currently operate our Minnesota, Indiana, Ohio, Pennsylvania, Texas, Georgia, California, North Carolina, and Ontario, Canada distribution centers with automated storage and retrieval systems or 'ASRS'. These nine distribution centers operate with greater speed and efficiency, and currently handle approximately 85% of our picking activity. The Indiana facility also contains our centralized replenishment facility for a portion of our industrial vending business. This operation is also highly automated. We intend to invest in this type of ASRS distribution infrastructure over the next several years at our Washington and Kansas distribution centers. 
  
   5 

     Table of Contents  

Our information systems department develops, implements, and maintains the computer based technology used to support business functions within Fastenal. Corporate, e-business, distribution center, and vending systems are primarily supported from central locations, while each selling location uses a locally installed Point-Of-Sale (POS) system. The systems consist of both customized, purchased, and licensed software. A dedicated Wide Area Network (WAN) is used to provide connectivity between systems and authorized users. 
  Trademarks and Service Marks 
  We conduct business under various trademarks and service marks, and we utilize a variety of designs and tag lines in connection with each of these marks, including   First In Fasteners       .   Although we do not believe our operations are substantially dependent upon any of our trademarks or service marks, we consider the 'Fastenal' name and our other trademarks and service marks to be valuable to our business. 
  Products 
  Our original product offerings were fasteners and other industrial and construction supplies, many of which are sold under the Fastenal        product name. This product line, which we refer to as the fastener product line, consists of two broad categories: threaded fasteners, such as bolts, nuts, screws, studs, and related washers; and miscellaneous supplies and hardware, such as various pins and machinery keys, concrete anchors, metal framing systems, wire rope, strut, rivets, and related accessories. 
  Threaded fasteners are used in most manufactured products and building projects, and in the maintenance and repair of machines and structures. Many aspects of the threaded fastener market are common to all cities. Variations from city to city that do exist typically relate to the types of businesses operating in a market or to the environmental conditions in a market. Therefore, we open each store with a broad selection of base stocks of inventory and then encourage the local store and district leaders to tailor the additional inventory to the local market demand as it develops. 
  Threaded fasteners accounted for approximately 90% of the fastener product line sales in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   and approximately 33%, 34%, and 36% of our consolidated sales in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. 
  Since 1993, we have added additional product lines.  These product lines are sold through the same distribution channel as the original fastener product line, and more recently portions of our non-fastener product lines are also sold through industrial vending machines. The most significant of these is our safety supplies product line, which accounted for approximately 15%, 14%, and 13% of our sales in 2016, 2015, and 2014, respectively. 
  Detailed information about our sales by product line is provided in Note 10 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Each product line may contain multiple product categories.  
  During the last several years, we have added 'private label' brands (we often refer to these as 'Fastenal brands') to our offering. These private label brands represented approximately 12%, 12%, and 11% of our consolidated net sales in   2016  , 2015, and 2014, respectively. Most of these private label products are in the non-fastener product lines. 
  We plan to continue to add other products in the future. 
  Inventory Control 
  Our inventory stocking levels are determined using our computer systems, our sales personnel at the store, district, and region levels, and our product managers. The data used for this determination is derived from sales activity from all of our selling locations, from individual selling locations, and from different geographic areas. It is also derived from vendor information and from customer demographic information. The computer system monitors the inventory level for all stock items and triggers replenishment, or prompts a buyer to purchase, as necessary, based on an established minimum-maximum level. All stores stock a base inventory and may expand beyond preset inventory levels as deemed appropriate by the district and store personnel. Non-store selling locations stock inventory based on customer-specific arrangements. Inventories in distribution centers are established from computerized data for the selling locations served by the respective distribution center. Inventory quantities are continuously re-balanced utilizing an automated transfer mechanism we call 'inventory re-distribution'. 
  Manufacturing and Support Services Operations 
  In   2016  , approximately 96% of our consolidated net sales were attributable to products manufactured by other companies to industry standards or to customer specific requirements. The remaining 4% related to products manufactured, modified or repaired by our manufacturing businesses or our support services. The manufactured products consist primarily of non-standard sizes of threaded fasteners made to customers' specifications or standard sizes manufactured under our Holo-Krome        and Cardinal Fasteners        product lines. The services provided by the support services group include, but are not limited to, items such as tool repair, band saw blade welding, and light manufacturing. We engage in these activities primarily as a service to our customers and expect these activities in the future to continue to contribute in the range of 4% to 6% of our consolidated net sales. 
  
   6 

     Table of Contents  

Sources of Supply 
  We use a large number of suppliers for the standard stock items we distribute. Most items distributed by our network can be purchased from several sources, although preferred sourcing is used for some stock items to facilitate quality control. No single supplier accounted for more than 5% of our inventory purchases in   2016  . 
  Beyond inventory, we have some concentration of purchasing activity. For example, we utilize a limited number of suppliers for distribution equipment, two main suppliers for our vehicle fleet, and primarily one supplier for our industrial vending equipment. However, we believe there are viable alternatives to each of these, if necessary. 
  Geographic Information 
  Information regarding our revenues and long-lived assets by geographic location is set forth in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included later in this Form 10-K. Our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices, as well as net sales at our foreign locations, could be impacted by foreign currency fluctuations, changes in trade relations, or fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies. 
  Customers and Marketing 
  We believe our success can be attributed to our ability to offer customers a full line of quality products at convenient locations, and to the superior service orientation and expertise of our employees. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and maintenance, repair, and operations (MRO). The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our products include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration, production, and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. During the fourth quarter of   2016  , our total number of active customer accounts (defined as accounts having purchase activity within the last 90 days) was approximately 400,000, while our total 'core accounts' (defined as the average number of accounts each month with purchase activity of at least $250 per month) was approximately 106,000. 
  In   2016  , no one customer accounted for more than 5% of our sales. We believe that our large number of customers, together with the varied markets that they represent, provide some protection to us from economic downturns that are not across multiple industries and geographic regions. However, slumps in one industry served by us can rapidly spread to other interrelated industries, which can mute the benefit of this protection. Examples include the collapse of oil and other commodity prices, which has had a detrimental impact not only on customers in the oil and gas, agriculture, and mining industries, but also other industries, such as heavy equipment manufacturers, servicing these customers. This impact is compounded if it is a global rather than a regional issue. 
  Direct marketing continues to be the backbone of our business through our local storefronts and selling personnel. We support our stores with multi-channel marketing including email and online marketing, print and radio advertising, catalogs, promotional flyers, events, and store signage. In recent years, our national advertising has been focused on NASCAR        sponsorships through our partnership with Roush Fenway Racing       . In 2016 and 2015, we presented the Fastenal        brand to millions of Sprint Cup fans as the primary sponsor of Ricky Stenhouse Jr.'s No. 17 car.  
  Seasonality 
  Seasonality has some impact on our sales. During the winter months, our sales to customers in the non-residential construction market typically slow due to inclement weather. Also, sales to our industrial production customers may decrease during the Fourth of July holiday period, the Thanksgiving holiday period (October in Canada and November in the United States), and the Christmas and New Year holiday period, due to plant shut downs. 
  Competition 
  Our business is highly competitive. Competitors include large distributors located primarily in large cities, smaller distributors located in many of the same smaller markets in which we have stores, and on-line retailers. We believe the principal competitive factors affecting the markets for our products are customer service, price, convenience, product availability, and cost saving solutions. 
  Some competitors use vans to sell their products in markets away from their main warehouses, while others rely on mail order, websites, or telemarketing sales. We, however, believe the convenience provided to customers by operating selling locations (primarily stores) in small, medium, and large markets, each offering a wide variety of products, is a competitive selling advantage. The convenience of a large number of stores in a given area, taken together with our ability to provide frequent deliveries to such stores from centrally located distribution centers, facilitates the prompt and efficient distribution of products. We also believe our industrial vending, combined with our local storefront, provides a unique way to provide to our customers convenient access to products and cost saving solutions using a business model not easily replicated by our competitors. Having trained personnel at each store also enhances our ability to compete (see 'Employees' below). 
  
   7 

     Table of Contents  

Our Onsite service model provides us with a strategic advantage with our larger customers. Building on our core business strategy of the local store, the Onsite model provides value to our customers through customized service while giving us a competitive advantage through stronger relationships with those customers, all with a relatively low investment given the existing store and distribution structure. 
  Employees 
  We employ a total of   19,624   full and part-time employees, most of whom are employed at a store or an Onsite location. We characterize these personnel as follows: 

We believe the quality of our employees is critical to our ability to compete successfully in the markets we currently serve and to our ability to open new stores in new markets. We foster the growth and education of skilled employees throughout the organization by operating training programs and by decentralizing decision-making. Wherever possible, our goal is to 'promote from within'. For example, most new store managers are promoted from an outside sales position and district managers (who supervise a number of stores) are usually former store managers. 
  The Fastenal School of Business (our internal corporate university program) develops and delivers a comprehensive array of industry and company-specific education and training programs that are offered to our employees. Our school of business provides core curricula focused on key competencies determined to be critical to the success of our employees' performance. In addition, we provide specialized educational tracks within various institutes of learning. These institutes of learning are advanced levels that provide specific concentrations of education and development and have been designed to focus on critical aspects of our business, such as leadership, effective store best practices, sales and marketing, product education, and distribution. 
  Our sales personnel are compensated with a base salary and an incentive bonus arrangement that places emphasis on achieving increased sales on a store, district, and regional basis, while still attaining targeted levels of, among other things, gross profit and trade accounts receivable collections. As a result, a significant portion of our total employment cost varies with sales volume. We also pay incentive bonuses to our leadership personnel based on one or more of the following factors: sales growth, earnings growth (before and after taxes), profitability, and return on assets, and to our other personnel for achieving pre-determined departmental, project, and cost containment goals. 
  Our employees are not subject to any collective bargaining agreements and we have experienced no work stoppages. We believe our employee relations are good. 
  Available Information 
  Our annual reports on Form 10-K, quarterly reports on Form 10-Q, current reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act are available free of charge on or through our website at www.fastenal.com as soon as reasonably practicable after such reports have been filed with or furnished to the SEC. 

8 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1A. 
    RISK FACTORS 
     In addition to the other information in this Form 10-K, the following factors should be considered in evaluating our business. Our operating results depend upon many factors and are subject to various risks and uncertainties. The most significant risks and uncertainties known to us which may cause our operating results to vary from anticipated results or which may negatively affect our operating results and profitability are as follows: 
  Company Risks 
  Products that we sell may expose us to potential material liability for property damage, environmental damage, personal injury, or death linked to the use of those products by our customers.   Some of our customers operate in challenging industries where there is a material risk of catastrophic events. We are actively seeking to expand our sales to certain categories of customers, some of whose businesses may entail heightened levels of such risk. If any of these events are linked to the use by our customers of any of our products, claims could be brought against us by those customers, by governmental authorities, and by third parties who are injured or damaged as a result of such events. In addition, our reputation could be adversely affected by negative publicity surrounding such events regardless of whether or not claims against us are successful. While we maintain insurance coverage to mitigate a portion of this risk and may have recourse against our suppliers for losses arising out of defects in products procured from them, we could experience significant losses as a result of claims made against us to the extent adequate insurance is not in place, the products are manufactured by us or legal recourse against our suppliers is otherwise not available, or our insurers or suppliers are unwilling or unable to satisfy their obligations to us. 
  We may be unable to meet our goals regarding the growth drivers of our business.   Our sales growth is dependent primarily on our ability to attract new customers and increase our activity with existing customers. Historically, the most effective way to attract new customers has been opening new stores. In recent years, however, we have devoted increased resources to other growth drivers, including our industrial vending business (which is discussed in more detail below), our Onsite business, and our national accounts team. While we have taken steps to build momentum in the growth drivers of our business, we cannot assure you those steps will lead to additional sales growth. Failure to achieve any of our goals regarding industrial vending, Onsite locations, national accounts signings, our CSP 16 (Customer Service Project 2016) initiative, or other growth drivers could negatively impact our long-term sales growth.  
  Changes in customer or product mix, downward pressure on sales prices, and changes in volume of orders could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline in the future.   Changes in our customer or product mix could cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline. For example, the portion of our sales attributable to fasteners has been decreasing in recent years. That has adversely affected our gross profit percentage as our non-fastener products generally carry lower gross profit margins than our fastener products. Also, as noted below, our strategy of growing our pre-tax profit margin by increasing our average annual sales per store has contributed to a drop in our gross profit percentage due to resulting changes in our customer mix. If our customer or product mix continues to change, our gross profit percentage may decline further. Downward pressure on sales prices and changes in the volume of our orders could also cause our gross profit percentage to fluctuate or decline. We can experience downward pressure on sales prices as a result of deflation, pressure from customers to reduce costs, or increased competition. Reductions in our volume of purchases can adversely impact gross profit by reducing supplier volume allowances. During 2016 and 2015, our gross profit continued to be adversely impacted by changes in customer and product mix. The decrease in 2015 was amplified by a reduction in our customers' discretionary spending in the fourth quarter.  
  Our 'pathway-to-profit' strategy, the goal of which is to improve our pre-tax profit margins by growing the average annual sales of our stores, may prove unsuccessful on a long-term basis.   In April 2007, we introduced our 'pathway-to-profit' strategy. That strategy involved slowing our annual new store openings and investing the funds saved by opening fewer stores in additional sales and sales leadership personnel. Under the 'pathway-to-profit' strategy, our goal is to increase our average annual sales per store, which would allow us to capture earnings leverage (by spreading operating and administrative expenses over higher sales) and grow our pre-tax profit margin. Our gross profit margin generally decreases as our average per store sales increase, as larger stores sell to larger customers whose more focused buying patterns merit more competitive pricing. However, our operating and administrative expenses, expressed as a percentage of net sales, typically improve as average per store sales grow. In most years the net effect is an increase in our pre-tax profit margin, as the relative improvement in operating and administrative expenses offsets the decrease in gross profit margin. A downturn in the economy or in the principle markets served by us or difficulty in attracting and retaining qualified sales and sales leadership personnel could adversely impact our ability to continue to grow our average per store sales. In addition, greater than expected decreases in our gross profit margin resulting from changes in customer mix or other factors noted above, or the failure to control operating and administrative expenses to the degree necessary to offset expected decreases in our gross profit margin, could adversely impact our pre-tax profit margin even as average per store sales increase. 
  Our competitive advantage in our industrial vending business could be eliminated and the loss of key suppliers of equipment and services for that business could be disruptive.   We believe we have a competitive advantage in industrial vending due to our vending hardware and software, our local store presence (allowing us to service machines more rapidly), our 'vendible'  
  
   9 

     Table of Contents  

product depth, and in North America, our distribution strength. These advantages have developed over time; however, other competitors could respond to our expanding industrial vending business with highly competitive platforms of their own. Such competition could negatively impact our ability to expand our industrial vending business or negatively impact the economics of that business. In addition, we currently rely on a limited number of suppliers for the vending machines used in, and certain software and services needed to operate, our industrial vending business. While these machines, software, and services can be obtained from other sources, loss of our current suppliers or difficulties transitioning our industrial vending hosting services could be disruptive. 
  The ability to identify new products and product lines, and integrate them into our selling locations and distribution network, may impact our ability to compete and our sales and profit margins.   Our success depends in part on our ability to develop product expertise at the store level and identify future products and product lines that complement existing products and product lines and that respond to our customers' needs. We may not be able to compete effectively unless our product selection keeps up with trends in the markets in which we compete or trends in new products. In addition, our ability to integrate new products and product lines into our stores and distribution network could impact sales and profit margins. 
  Our ability to successfully attract and retain qualified personnel to staff our selling locations could impact labor costs, sales at existing selling locations, and the successful execution of our growth drivers.   Our success depends in part on our ability to attract, motivate, and retain a sufficient number of qualified employees, including store managers, outside sales personnel, and other store associates, who understand and appreciate our culture and are able to adequately represent this culture to our customers. Qualified individuals of the requisite caliber and number needed to fill these positions may be in short supply in some areas, and the turnover rate in the industry is high. If we are unable to hire and retain personnel capable of consistently providing a high level of customer service, as demonstrated by their enthusiasm for our culture and product knowledge, our sales could be materially adversely affected. Additionally, competition for qualified employees could require us to pay higher wages to attract a sufficient number of employees. An inability to recruit and retain a sufficient number of qualified individuals in the future may also delay the planned openings of new stores and planned expansion of our other selling channels. 
  Our inability to transition key executive officers may divert the attention of other members of our senior management from our existing operations.   Our success depends on the efforts and abilities of our senior management and we have had some transition in our executive officers over the last few years. Difficulties in smoothly implementing that transition, or of recruiting suitable replacements in the event of unsuccessful transitions, could divert the attention of other members of our senior management team from our existing operations. 
  We may not be able to compete effectively against our competitors, which could cause us to lose market share or erode our operating income.   The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry, although consolidating, still remains a large, fragmented industry that is highly competitive. Our current or future competitors may include companies with similar or greater market presence, name recognition, and financial, marketing, and other resources, and we believe they will continue to challenge us with their product selection, financial resources, and services. Increased competition from brick and mortar retailers in markets in which we have stores or from on-line retailers (particularly those major internet providers who can offer a wide range of products and rapid delivery), and the adoption by competitors of aggressive pricing strategies and sales methods, could cause us to lose market share or reduce our prices or increase our spending, thus eroding our operating income. 
  Interruptions in the proper functioning of information systems could disrupt operations and cause unanticipated increases in costs and/or decreases in revenues.   The proper functioning of our information systems is critical to the successful operation of our business. Although our information systems are protected with robust backup systems, including physical and software safeguards and remote processing capabilities, information systems are still vulnerable to natural disasters, power losses, unauthorized access, telecommunication failures, and other problems. In addition, certain software used by us is licensed from, and certain services related to our information systems are provided by, third parties who could choose to discontinue their relationship with us. If critical information systems fail or these systems or related software or services are otherwise unavailable, our ability to process orders, maintain proper levels of inventories, collect accounts receivable, pay expenses, and maintain the security of Company and customer data could be adversely affected.  
  In the event of a cyber security incident, we could experience certain operational interruptions, incur substantial additional costs, become subject to legal or regulatory proceedings, or suffer damage to our reputation in the marketplace.   The nature of our business requires us to receive, retain, and transmit certain personally identifying information that our customers provide to purchase products or services, register on our websites, or otherwise communicate and interact with us. While we have taken and continue to undertake significant steps to protect our customer and confidential information, a compromise of our data security systems or those of businesses we interact with could result in information related to our customers or business being obtained by unauthorized persons. We develop and update processes and maintain systems in an effort to try to prevent this from occurring, but the development and maintenance of these processes and systems are costly and require ongoing monitoring and updating as technologies change and efforts to overcome security measures become more sophisticated. Consequently, despite our efforts, the possibility of cyber security incidents cannot be eliminated entirely. While we also seek to obtain assurances that third parties we interact with will protect confidential information, there is a risk the confidentiality of  
  
   10 

     Table of Contents  

data held or accessed by third parties may be compromised. If a compromise of our data security were to occur, it could interrupt our operations, subject us to additional legal, regulatory, and operating costs, and damage our reputation in the marketplace.  
  Our business is subject to a wide array of laws and regulations in every jurisdiction where we operate. Compliance with these laws and regulations increases the cost of doing business and failure to comply could result in the imposition of fines or penalties and the termination of contracts.   We are subject to a variety of laws and regulations including without limitation; import and export requirements, anti-bribery and corruption laws, tax laws (including U.S. taxes on foreign subsidiaries), product compliance laws, environmental laws, foreign exchange controls and cash repatriation restrictions, advertising regulations, data privacy and cyber security requirements, regulations on suppliers regarding the sources of supplies or products, labor and employment laws, and anti-competition regulations. In addition, as a supplier to federal, state, and local government agencies, we must comply with certain laws and regulations relating specifically to the formation, administration, and performance of our governmental contracts. We are also subject to governmental audits and inquiries in the normal course of business. Ongoing audit activity and changes to the legal and regulatory environments could increase the cost of doing business, and such costs may increase in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation. While we have implemented policies and procedures designed to facilitate compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations, or our policies. Any such violations could result in the imposition of fines and penalties, damage to our reputation, and, in the case of laws and regulations relating specifically to governmental contracts, the loss of those contracts. 
  We may not be successful in integrating acquisitions and achieving intended benefits and synergies.   We have completed several acquisitions of businesses in recent years. We expect to continue to pursue strategic acquisitions that we believe will either expand or complement our business in new or existing markets or further enhance the value and offerings we are able to provide to our existing or future potential customers. Acquisitions involve numerous risks and challenges, including, among others, a risk of potential loss of key employees of an acquired business, inability to achieve identified operating and financial synergies anticipated to result from an acquisition, diversion of our capital and our management's attention from other business issues, and risks related to the integration of the acquired business including unanticipated changes in our business, our industry, or general economic conditions that affect the assumptions underlying the acquisition. Any one or more of these factors could cause us to not realize the benefits anticipated to result from the acquisitions. 
  Industry and General Economic Risks 
  A downturn in the economy or in the principal markets served by us and other factors may affect customer spending, which could harm our operating results.   In general, our sales represent spending on discretionary items or consumption needs by our customers. This spending is affected by many factors, including, among others: 
             
    general business conditions, 
                
    business conditions in our principal markets, 
                
    interest rates, 
                
    inflation, 
                
    liquidity in credit markets, 
                
    taxation, 
                
    government regulations, 
                
    energy and fuel prices and electrical power rates, 
                
    unemployment trends, 
                
    terrorist attacks and acts of war, 
                
    weather conditions, and 
                
    other matters that influence customer confidence and spending. 
     A downturn in either the national or local economy where our stores operate, or in the principal markets served by us, or changes in any of the other factors described above, could negatively impact sales at our stores, sales through our other selling channels, and the level of profitability of those stores and other selling channels. 
  This risk was demonstrated in 2015 and 2016. We have significant exposure to companies involved in the manufacture of capital goods and heavy equipment. In 2015, our business was impacted by lower commodity prices, including oil, lower corporate capital spending, and a strong U.S. dollar. These variables resulted in our manufacturing customers making less money, and when that happens they tend to cut back on spending which yields a slowdown in our business to those customers. These same dynamics carried into 2016. 
  Products manufactured in foreign countries may cease to be available, which could adversely affect our inventory levels and operating results.   We obtain certain of our products, and our suppliers obtain certain of their products, from China, Taiwan, South Korea, Mexico, and other foreign countries. Our suppliers could discontinue selling products manufactured in foreign countries at any time for reasons that may or may not be in our control or our suppliers' control, including foreign government  
  
   11 

     Table of Contents  

regulations, domestic government regulations, political unrest, war, disruption or delays in shipments, changes in local economic conditions, or trade issues. Additionally, the shipment of goods from foreign countries could be delayed by container shipping companies encountering financial or other difficulties. Our operating results and inventory levels could suffer if we are unable to promptly replace a supplier or shipper who is unwilling or unable to satisfy our requirements with another supplier or shipper providing equally appealing products and services. 
  New trade policies could make sourcing product from overseas more difficult and/or more costly  . We source a significant amount of the products we sell from outside of the United States, primarily Asia. This sourcing is both direct (through our wholly-owned, Asia-based subsidiary, FASTCO Trading Co., Ltd.) and indirect (from vendors that themselves procure product from international sources). Considerable political uncertainty has arisen in the United States that may result in changes in the trade policies that companies, such as Fastenal, have built their sourcing operations around. Should this occur, it may be difficult in light of: (1) the significant structural investments made over time, and (2) the absence of significant domestic fastener production for us to adjust our capabilities to the new policies in the short term, which could increase the difficulty and/or cost of sourcing foreign products. Such changes could adversely affect our ability to secure sufficient product to service our customers and/or adversely affect our cost of operating in a way that hurts our financial results. 
  Changes in energy costs and the cost of raw materials used in our products could impact our net sales, cost of sales, gross profit percentage, distribution expenses, and occupancy expenses, which may result in lower operating income.   Costs of raw materials used in our products (e.g., steel) and energy costs have fluctuated during the last several years. Increases in these costs result in increased production costs for our suppliers. These suppliers typically look to pass their increased costs along to us through price increases. The fuel costs of our distribution and store operations have fluctuated as well. While we typically try to pass increased supplier prices and fuel costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact, we may not be successful, particularly if supplier prices or fuel costs rise rapidly. Failure to fully pass any such increased prices and costs through to our customers or to modify our activities to mitigate the impact would have an adverse effect on our operating income. While increases in the cost of fuel or raw materials could be damaging to us, decreases in those costs, particularly if severe, could also adversely impact us by creating deflation in selling prices, which could cause our gross profit to deteriorate, or by negatively impacting customers in certain industries, which could cause our sales to those customers to decline. 
  The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry is consolidating, which could cause it to become more competitive and could negatively impact our market share, gross profit, and operating income.   The industrial, construction, and maintenance supply industry in North America is consolidating. This consolidation is being driven by customer needs and supplier capabilities, which could cause the industry to become more competitive as greater economies of scale are achieved by suppliers, or as competitors with new business models are willing and able to operate with lower gross profit on select products. Customers are increasingly aware of the total costs of fulfillment and of the need to have consistent sources of supply at multiple locations. We believe these customer needs could result in fewer suppliers as the remaining suppliers become larger and capable of being a consistent source of supply. 
  There can be no assurance we will be able in the future to take advantage effectively of the trend toward consolidation. The trend in our industry toward consolidation could make it more difficult for us to maintain our current gross profit and operating income. Furthermore, as our industrial customers face increased foreign competition, and potentially lose business to foreign competitors or shift their operations overseas in an effort to reduce expenses, we may face increased difficulty in growing and maintaining our market share. 
  Inclement weather and other disruptions to the transportation network could adversely impact our distribution system and demand for our products.   Our ability to provide efficient distribution of core business products to our store network is an integral component of our overall business strategy. Disruptions at distribution centers or shipping ports may affect our ability to both maintain core products in inventory and deliver products to our customers on a timely basis, which may in turn adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, severe weather conditions could adversely affect demand for our products in particularly hard hit regions.  
  Our current estimates of the market potential of our business strategies could be incorrect.   Our strategies to grow our business include the opening of stores in new and existing markets and the expansion of our industrial vending business and Onsite locations. We currently estimate there is potential market opportunity in North America to support approximately 3,500 stores and that the potential market opportunity for industrial vending is approximately 1.7 million machines. We have also identified over 15,000 customer locations with the potential to implement our Onsite service model. These estimates are based on our business model today, and the introduction or expansion of other business strategies, such as on-line retailing, could cause them to change. In addition, the market potential of a particular business strategy may vary from expectations because of a change in the marketplace (such as changes in customer concentration or needs), a change in the nature of that business strategy, or weaker than anticipated acceptance by customers of that business strategy. We cannot guarantee that our market potential estimates are accurate or that we will decide to open stores or expand our industrial vending or Onsite service models to reach the full market opportunity. In particular, while we estimate we have the potential in North America for approximately  
  
   12 

     Table of Contents  

1,000 more stores than we have today, we have slowed our store openings in recent years and have focused instead on other growth drivers of our business. 
  We are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk, and changes in foreign exchange rates could increase our costs to procure products and impact our foreign sales.   Because the functional currency related to most of our foreign operations is the applicable local currency, we are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate risk arising from transactions in the normal course of business. Fluctuations in the relative strength of foreign economies and their related currencies could adversely impact our ability to procure products overseas at competitive prices and our foreign sales. Historically, our primary exchange rate exposure has been with the Canadian dollar. 
  Tight credit markets could impact our ability to obtain financing on reasonable terms or increase the cost of existing or future financing.   As of   December 31, 2016  , we had   $390 million   of outstanding debt obligations, including loans outstanding under our revolving credit facility (the 'Credit Facility') of   $305 million   and senior unsecured promissory notes issued under our master note agreement (the 'Master Note Agreement') in the aggregate principal amount of   $75 million  . Loans under the Credit Facility bear interest at a rate per annum based on the London Interbank Offered Rate ('LIBOR') and mature on March 1, 2018. The notes issued under our Master Note Agreement consist of two series. The first is in an aggregate principal amount of $40 million, bears interest at a fixed rate of 2.00% per annum, and is due and payable on July 20, 2021. The second is in an aggregate principal amount of $35 million, bears interest at a fixed rate of 2.45% per annum, and is due and payable on July 20, 2022. Our aggregate borrowing capacity under the Credit Facility is $700 million. Our aggregate borrowing capacity under the Master Note Agreement is $200 million; however none of the institutional investors party to that agreement are committed to purchase notes thereunder.  
  During periods of volatility and disruption in the United States credit markets, financing may become more costly and more difficult to obtain. Although the credit market turmoil of 2008 and 2009 did not have a significant adverse impact on our liquidity or borrowing costs given our low level of indebtedness at that time, the availability of funds tightened and credit spreads on corporate debt increased. Our indebtedness has increased significantly since 2009 and we have the capacity under our Credit Facility and Master Note Agreement to substantially increase borrowings in the future. If credit market volatility were to return, the cost of servicing our existing debt could increase due to the LIBOR-based interest rate provided for under our Credit Facility. In addition, borrowing additional amounts to finance stock purchases, dividends, capital expenditures, and other liquidity needs or to refinance our existing indebtedness could be difficult and the cost of doing so could be high. 
  For more information relating to borrowing and interest rates, see the following sections below: Cash Flow Impact Items   Liquidity and Capital Resources   Debt under the heading 'Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations', 'Item 7A. Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risks', and Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  Investment Risk 
  We cannot provide any guaranty of future dividend payments or that we will continue to purchase shares of our common stock pursuant to our stock purchase program.   Although our board of directors has historically authorized the payment of quarterly cash dividends on our common stock and indicated an intention to do so in the future, there are no assurances that we will continue to pay dividends in the future or continue to increase dividends at historic rates. In addition, although our board of directors has authorized share purchase programs and we purchased shares in 2016, 2015, and prior years through these programs, we may discontinue doing so at any time. Any decision to continue to pay quarterly dividends on our common stock, to increase those dividends, or to purchase our common stock in the future will be based upon our financial condition and results of operations, the price of our common stock, credit conditions, and such other factors as are deemed relevant by our board of directors. 

13 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 1B. 
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS 
     None. 
   
           ITEM 2. 
    PROPERTIES 
     Note   Information in this section is as of December 31, 2016, unless otherwise noted. 
  We own the following facilities in Winona, Minnesota: 

(1)    Total number of tote locations for small parts storage included in facilities with an ASRS.  
  We own the following facilities, excluding selling locations, outside of Winona, Minnesota: 

(1)    Total number of tote locations for small parts storage included in facilities with an ASRS.  
   (2)    This property contains an ASRS with capacity of 52,000 pallet locations, in addition to the 561,000 tote locations for small parts noted above; 105,000 of these small part tote locations are located in the industrial vending automated replenishment facility ('T-Hub'), which is also located on this property. 
   (3)    This facility contains an ASRS with capacity of 14,000 pallet locations, in addition to the 41,000 tote locations for small parts noted above. 
  In addition, we own 179 buildings that house our store locations in various cities throughout North America. 
  
   14 

     Table of Contents  

All other buildings we occupy are leased. Leased stores range from approximately 3,000 to 10,000 square feet, with lease terms of up to 60 months (most initial lease terms are for 36 to 48 months). In addition to our leased store locations, we also lease the following facilities: 

If economic conditions are suitable in the future, we will consider purchasing store locations to house our older stores. It is anticipated the majority of new store locations will continue to be leased. It is our policy to negotiate relatively short lease terms to facilitate relocation of particular store operations, when desirable. Our experience has been that there is sufficient space suitable for our needs and available for leasing. 

ITEM 3. 
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
     A description of our legal proceedings, if any, is contained in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

ITEM 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
     Not applicable. 

15 

Table of Contents  

PART II 

ITEM 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT'S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS, AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES 
     Common Stock Data 
  Dollar amounts in this section are stated in whole numbers. 
  Our shares are traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol 'FAST'. As of   January 20, 2017  , there were approximately 1,100 record holders of our common stock, which includes nominees or broker dealers holding stock on behalf of an estimated 205,000 beneficial owners. 
  The following table sets forth, by quarter, the high and low closing sale price   (1)    of our shares on The NASDAQ Stock Market for   2016   and   2015  . 

(1)    The closing sale price was obtained from Shareholder.com, a division of Nasdaq OMX. 
  The following table sets forth our dividend payout (on a per share basis) in each of the last two years: 

On   January 17, 2017  , we announced a quarterly dividend of   $0.32   per share to be paid on   February 28, 2017   to shareholders of record at the close of business on   February 1, 2017  . Our board of directors intends to continue paying quarterly dividends, provided that any future determination as to payment of dividends will depend upon the financial condition and results of operations of the Company and such other factors as are deemed relevant by the board of directors. 
  Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
  The table below sets forth information regarding purchases of our common stock during each of the last three months of   2016  : 

(1)    On May 1, 2015, our board of directors authorized the purchase by us of 4,000,000 shares of our common stock. As of December 31, 2016, we had remaining authority to purchase 1,300,000 shares under this authorization. 
  Purchases of shares of our common stock throughout   2016   are described later in this Form 10-K under the heading 'Item 7. Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations'. 
  
   16 

     Table of Contents  

Fastenal Company Common Stock Comparative Performance Graph 
  Set forth below is a graph comparing, for the five years ended December 31,   2016  , the yearly cumulative total shareholder return on our common stock with the yearly cumulative total shareholder return of the S P 500 Index and the Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index.  
  The comparison of total shareholder returns in the performance graph assumes that $100 was invested on December 31, 2011 in Fastenal Company, the S P 500 Index, and the Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index, and that dividends were reinvested when and as paid. 
  Comparison of Five-Year Cumulative Total Return Among Fastenal Company, the S P 500 Index, and the Dow Jones US Industrial Suppliers Index 

Note - The graph and index table above were obtained from Zachs SEC Compliance Services Group. 

ITEM 6. 
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA 
     Incorporated herein by reference is Ten-Year Selected Financial Data on pages 4 and 5 of Fastenal's   2016   Annual Report to Shareholders of which this Form 10-K forms a part, a portion of which is filed as Exhibit 13 to this annual report on  
  Form 10-K. 

17 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7. 
    MANAGEMENT'S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
     The following is management's discussion and analysis of certain significant factors that have affected our financial position and operating results during the periods included in the accompanying consolidated financial statements. (Dollar amounts are in thousands except for per share amounts and where otherwise noted.) 
  BUSINESS AND OPERATIONAL OVERVIEW 
  Fastenal is a North American leader in the wholesale distribution of industrial and construction supplies. We distribute these supplies through a network of approximately   2,500   company owned stores. Most of our customers are in the manufacturing and non-residential construction markets. The manufacturing market includes both original equipment manufacturers (OEM) and maintenance, repair, and operations (MRO). The non-residential construction market includes general, electrical, plumbing, sheet metal, and road contractors. Other users of our product include farmers, truckers, railroads, oil exploration, production and refinement companies, mining companies, federal, state, and local governmental entities, schools, and certain retail trades. Geographically, our stores and customers are primarily located in North America. 
  BUSINESS DISCUSSION 
  We are a growth-centric organization focused on identifying 'drivers' that will allow us to get closer to our customers and gain market share in what we believe remains a fragmented industrial distribution market. Our current growth drivers will be discussed throughout this report. Our growth drivers have evolved, and can be expected to continue to evolve, over time. However, what has always been true, and what we expect to remain true, is the key to the success of any of our growth drivers is our employees and the services they provide to our customers in the field. 
  The table below summarizes our store employee count and our total employee count at the end of the periods presented. Later in this document we discuss the average full-time equivalent ('FTE') headcount to help explain the expense trends in more detail. The final three items below summarize our investments in industrial vending machines, Onsite locations, and store locations.  

(1)    In February 2016, we signed an agreement to lease a significant number of industrial vending lockers to one of our customers. As of December 31, 2016, we have deployed approximately 15,000 devices under this agreement. These devices do not generate product revenue and are excluded from the count noted above. 
  Several items worth noting with respect to our results: 
  (1)    During the last twelve months, we have reduced our headcount by 995 people in our stores and 1,122 people in total. These reductions can be primarily attributed to natural attrition rather than an active headcount reduction program. We continue to add headcount where necessary to support our growth initiatives, notably our Onsite business (defined as dedicated sales and service provided from within the customer's facility). However, the continued softness of the North American industrial economy has caused us to more intensively scrutinize our full- and part-time staffing levels outside of these initiatives. Indeed, after increasing our total headcount every quarter during 2015, it has declined during every quarter of 2016. Our current staffing levels approximate those at the end of 2014. 
  (2)    We opened 40 and 41 stores in 2016 and 2015, respectively. Our store network forms the foundation of our business strategy, and we will continue to open stores in 2017 as is deemed necessary to sustain and improve our network and support our growth drivers.  
  (3)    We closed or consolidated 144 stores in 2016; about 90% of these stores were in close proximity to another Fastenal store, and about 85% had leases expiring within 18 months. We closed or consolidated 50 stores in 2015; about 80% of these stores were in close proximity to another Fastenal store, and about 90% had leases expiring within 18 months. The store closings did not have a meaningful impact on sales in either period. We intend to continue evaluating markets for closures and consolidations in 2017 as part of our ongoing efforts to optimize our store network.  
  
   18 

     Table of Contents  

(4)    We continue to see a very strong pace of national account signings (defined as new customer accounts with a multi-site contract). In 2016 and 2015, we signed 190 and 167 new contracts, respectively. Beyond signings (or growth activities), we look at the health of our large customer market, and by extension our overall market, by watching the trends of our top 100 customers (which represented approximately 26% of our sales in 2016). For several years beginning in 2011, the typical ratio of growth versus contraction in the sales of our top 100 customers was 3:1 (75 grew and 25 contracted). That performance has weakened in recent periods, more typically approximating 1:1 since the fourth quarter of 2015, including the fourth quarter of 2016 when 51 customers grew (33 with growth of 10% or more) and 49 customers contracted (31 with contraction of 10% or more).  
  (5)    We have continued to expand our Onsite business. Our goal was to sign 200 Onsite customer locations in 2016, and we signed 176; 130 were operational as of December 31, 2016. All of the 80 Onsite customer locations we signed in 2015 were operational by the end of the second quarter of 2016.  
  (6)    We have converted most of our United States stores, approximately 2,000, to the CSP 16 (Customer Service Project 2016) format as of December 31, 2016. This merchandising footprint involves expanded inventory placement at our store locations to enhance same-day capabilities. At the end of the fourth quarter of 2016, our inventory of CSP 16 items at our stores was $42 million higher than the level at the end of the fourth quarter of 2015 (including inventory at our distribution centers, this value was $46 million higher). From the end of the third quarter of 2015, before we began this initiative, to the end of the fourth quarter of 2016, our inventory of CSP 16 items at our stores increased by $50 million (or $54 million when including inventory at our distribution centers). 
  The following sections contain an overview of the following: 
           1. 
    Sales and sales trends     a recap of our recent sales trends and some insight into the activities with different end markets. 
              2. 
    Growth drivers of our business     a recap of how we grow our business. 
              3. 
    Profit drivers of our business     a recap of how we increase our profits. 
              4. 
    Statement of earnings information     a recap of the components of our income statement. 
              5. 
    Cash flow impact items     a recap of the operational working capital utilized in our business, and the related cash flow. 
     The most important thing to note before you read this is to remember Fastenal is several businesses within itself; a fastener distributor (35% to 40% of our business) and a non-fastener distributor (60% to 65% of our business). Within the non-fastener component, approximately 25% is distributed through a vending machine. 
  FASTENER SALES 
  First and foremost, we are a fastener distributor. We have been in this business for almost 50 years. We are good at it. We have strong capabilities at sourcing and procurement, at quality control, at logistics, and at local customer service. Each of these capabilities is focused on the customer at the end of the supply chain. This business is split about 60% production/construction needs and about 40% maintenance needs. The former is a great business, but it can be cyclical because about 75% of our manufacturing customer base is engaged in some type of heavy manufacturing. The sale of production fasteners is also a sticky business in the short-term as it is expensive and time consuming for our customers to change their supplier relationships. While our customers value the capabilities we bring to the table, in the last two years this group of customers has seen its growth prospects weaken. In fact, the daily sales growth of the fastener product line peaked at over 10% in the second half of 2014. The rate of growth decelerated in the first quarter of 2015, began contracting in the third quarter of 2015, and continued to experience contraction throughout 2016, including contraction of 2.4% in   the fourth quarter. 
  NON-FASTENER SALES 
  Second, we have a non-fastener maintenance and supply business. We have actively pursued this business in the last 20 to 25 years. The capabilities we developed as a fastener distributor, described above, provide a backbone to growing this  newer  business. This backbone has been enhanced in recent years with our added capabilities in industrial vending, where we believe we have a structural advantage given our local customer service. There is more to industrial vending than the device or the financial resources to deploy; we believe the ability to replenish with a local team from an integrated supply chain network (i.e., the 'Team behind the Machine') is critical to the long-term success of this channel. Because of these capabilities, the non-fastener business remains more resilient. However, similar to our fastener business, growth in our non-fastener business has generally weakened in the last two years. In fact, the daily sales growth of the non-fastener product line peaked at over 17% in the second half of 2014 before beginning to decelerate in the first quarter of 2015. Daily sales of non-fasteners did not contract as fasteners did, but did slow to a growth rate of just 1.2% in the fourth quarter of 2015. Daily sales of non-fasteners rebounded in 2016, growing about 5% in each of the first three quarters of the year, with 5.9% growth in the fourth quarter of 2016.  
  One particular non-fastener product line, safety supplies, has benefited significantly from our initiatives with industrial vending. We introduced the safety supplies product line in 1999 and, at 15.3% of total sales in the fourth quarter of 2016, it represents our second largest product line after fasteners. Daily sales of our safety supplies product line experienced growth of  
  
   19 

     Table of Contents  

about 27% in the last six months of 2014, declined to about 6% growth in the fourth quarter of 2015 and improved to 9.3% annual growth in 2016. 
  Please read through the detailed   Sales and Sales Trends   section later in this document for additional insight. 
  Our gross profit decreased from 49.9% in the fourth quarter of 2015, and increased from 49.3% in the third quarter of 2016, to 49.8%   in the fourth quarter of 2016  . The relationship between sales and gross profit depends on our success within our large account business (an area that is still under-represented in our customer mix). Larger customers produce a below-company average gross profit; however, they generally leverage our existing network of capabilities which typically allows us to enjoy strong incremental operating income growth. This customer mix change (large versus small), as well as our product mix change (from fasteners to non-fasteners), over time places sustained pressure on our gross profit. We continued to face these headwinds throughout 2016 as the daily sales to our national accounts customers and of our non-fastener products grew approximately two percentage points and three percentage points faster, respectively, than total company sales growth. Against this backdrop, we believe we did well to hold the gross profit in the fourth quarter of 2016 relatively stable versus the fourth quarter of 2015. The meaningful sequential increase in our gross profit in the fourth quarter of 2016 relative to the third quarter of 2016 is not attributable to any single item. Rather, it reflects modest positive contributions from a handful of sources, including favorable product mix, lower freight costs, increased sales of Fastenal brands (private label), and the absence of certain costs related to growth initiatives (e.g., costs related to setting up CSP 16) in previous quarters. 
  Our operating income decreased from 19.4% in the fourth quarter of 2015 and from 20.0% in the third quarter of 2016, to 19.3% in the fourth quarter of 2016. For the year, our operating and administrative expenses in 2016 have increased primarily as a result of the following: (1) an increase in industrial vending equipment, (2) an increase in average FTE headcount, (3) an increase in health care costs, (4) an increase in information systems costs, and (5) an increase in the number of vehicles for sales personnel.  These increases were partially offset by a contraction in our performance bonuses and commissions, in our profit sharing contribution, and in fuel expense. Our fourth quarter 2016 operating income was relatively stable with the fourth quarter 2015 level as an increase in occupancy expenses as a percentage of sales (expansion of our vending devices) was mostly offset by a decline in payroll expenses as a percentage of sales (reduced headcount). The sequential decline in our operating income in the fourth quarter of 2016 relative to the third quarter of 2016 is consistent with historical norms and related to the lower sales volume that is typical of the period. 
  Using a quarterly average, the FTE headcount grew as follows for the periods ended December 31 (compared to the same period in the preceding year): 

Our signings and installed device count of vending machines were as follows for each period: 

In 2016 we executed a strategy of optimizing our vending machines, evaluating our devices for utilization, throughput, and product mix. By improving the efficiency of our installed base, we were able to remove about 9,300 units from service, which has the effect of artificially depressing our net installs in 2016 (a similar, less formal, effort existed in 2015, resulting in the removal of about 7,700 units). These removed units form a pool of ready-to-deploy machines that should reduce the capital necessary in the short term to continue growing our industrial vending device count. While this discrete initiative is substantially complete, efforts to incrementally optimize our growing installed base will be continuous. 
  
   20 

     Table of Contents  

SALES AND SALES TRENDS 
  While reading these items, it is helpful to appreciate several aspects of our marketplace: (1) it's big, the North American marketplace for industrial supplies is estimated to be in excess of $140 billion per year (and we have expanded beyond North America), (2) no company has a significant portion of this market, (3) many of the products we sell are individually inexpensive, (4) when our customer needs something quickly or unexpectedly our local store is a quick source, (5) the cost and time to manage and procure these products is meaningful, (6) the cost to move these products, many of which are bulky, can be significant, (7) many customers would prefer to reduce their number of suppliers to simplify their business, and (8) many customers would prefer to utilize various technologies to improve availability and reduce waste. 
  Our motto is   Growth through Customer Service       . This is important given the points noted above. We believe in efficient markets   to us, this means we can grow our market share if we provide the greatest value to our customers. We believe our ability to grow is amplified if we can service our customers at the closest economic point of contact. For us, this 'closest economic point of contact' is the local store or the customer's facility; therefore, our focus centers on understanding our customers' day, their opportunities, and their obstacles.  
  The concept of growth is simple  ,   find more customers every day and increase our activity with them. However, execution is hard work. First, we recruit service-minded individuals to support our customers and their business. Second, we operate in a decentralized fashion to help identify the greatest value for our customers. Third, we have a great team behind the store to operate efficiently and to help identify new business solutions. Fourth, we do these things every day. Finally, we strive to generate strong profits; these profits produce the cash flow necessary to fund our growth and to support the needs of our customers. 
   
  SALES GROWTH 
  Note   Daily sales are defined as the total net sales for the period divided by the number of business days (in the United States) in the period. 
  Net sales and daily sales were as follows: 

The increase in net sales in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   came primarily from higher unit sales. The higher unit sales resulted primarily from increases in sales at existing store locations and to a lesser degree the opening of new store locations in the last several years. The growth in net sales at the older store locations was due to the growth drivers of our business (discussed throughout this document). Net sales were also impacted by slight inflationary price changes in our non-fastener products and some price deflation in our fastener products, with the net impact being a slight drag on growth. Our growth in net sales was not meaningfully impacted by the introduction of new products or services, with one exception. Over the last several years, our industrial vending initiative has stimulated faster growth with a subset of our customers. The rates of growth in net sales in 2016 and 2015 were hindered by weakness in the industrial production and non-residential construction industries served by us. The added growth in 2014 was largely related to two things   the expansion, which began in the latter half of 2013, in the number of our store employees and the number of district and regional leaders supporting our stores, all in an effort to generate more selling energy within our stores, and a stabilization in our OEM fastener business. 
  
   21 

     Table of Contents  

The impact of the economy is best reflected in the growth performance of our stores opened greater than ten years ago (store sites opened as follows: 2016 group   opened 2006 and earlier, 2015 group   opened 2005 and earlier, and 2014 group   opened 2004 and earlier) and opened greater than five years ago (store sites opened as follows: 2016 group   opened 2011 and earlier, 2015 group   opened 2010 and earlier, and 2014 group   opened 2009 and earlier). These two groups of stores are more cyclical due to the increased market share they enjoy in their local markets. The stores opened greater than two years ago represent a consistent 'same store' view of our business (store sites opened as follows: 2016 group   opened 2014 and earlier, 2015 group   opened 2013 and earlier, and 2014 group   opened 2012 and earlier). The daily sales change for each of these groups was as follows: 

Note: The age groups above are measured as of the last day of each respective year. 
  Stores opened in   2016   contributed approximately $14,900 (or 0.4%) to   2016   net sales. Stores opened in   2015   contributed approximately $36,619 (or 0.9%) to   2016   net sales and approximately $8,745 (or 0.2%) to   2015   net sales. The rate of sales growth at store locations generally levels off after they have been open for five years, and the sales generated at our older store locations typically vary more with the economy than do the sales growth rates of younger stores. 
   
  SALES BY PRODUCT LINE 
  The approximate mix of sales from the fastener product line and from the other product lines was as follows: 

The decrease in our fastener sales as a percentage of total sales arises from two factors. First, we believe non-fastener products represent a larger market opportunity than fasteners, and that we are relatively under-represented in this market. Over time, this has led to faster growth in the non-fastener product lines, a trend amplified by the growth of our industrial vending program through which we sell primarily non-fastener products. We believe this factor will continue to promote a lower mix of fasteners in our total sales over time. Second, a weak industrial production environment, such as was experienced in 2015 and 2016, has a disproportionately negative effect on fastener sales relative to non-fastener sales (which relates more to plant operations than production). This weakness is more cyclical than secular, and it is possible that a better economic environment could at least partially mitigate the first factor discussed. 
   
  MONTHLY SALES CHANGES, SEQUENTIAL TRENDS, AND END MARKET PERFORMANCE 
  This section focuses on three distinct views of our business   monthly sales changes, sequential trends, and end market performance. The first discussion regarding   monthly sales changes   provides a good mechanical view of our business based on the age of our stores. The second discussion provides a framework for understanding the   sequential trends   (that is, comparing a month to the immediately preceding month, and also looking at the cumulative change from an earlier benchmark month) in our business. Finally, we believe the third discussion regarding   end market performance   provides insight into activities with our various types of customers. 
  Monthly Sales Changes: 
  All company sales     During the months noted below, all of our selling locations, when combined, had daily sales growth rates of (compared to the same month in the preceding year):   

22 

     Table of Contents  

Stores opened greater than   two   years     Our stores opened greater than two years (store sites opened as follows:   2016   group   opened   2014   and earlier,   2015   group   opened   2013   and earlier, and   2014   group   opened   2012   and earlier) represent a consistent 'same-store' view of our business. During the months noted below, the stores opened greater than two years had daily sales growth rates of (compared to the same month in the preceding year):   

  Stores opened greater than   five   years     The impact of the economy, over time, is best reflected in the growth performance of our stores opened greater than five years (store sites opened as follows:   2016   group   opened   2011   and earlier,   2015   group   opened   2010   and earlier, and   2014   group   opened   2009   and earlier). This group, which represented about 90% of our total sales in   2016  , is more cyclical due to the increased market share they enjoy in their local markets. During the months noted below, the stores opened greater than five years had daily sales growth rates of (compared to the same month in the preceding year):   

  Summarizing comments         There are three distinct influences to our growth: (1) execution, (2) currency fluctuations, and  
  (3) economic fluctuations. This discussion centers on (2) and (3).  
  The change in currencies in foreign countries relative to the United States dollar impacted our net sales growth over the last several years. During 2016, it lowered our net sales growth by 0.4%. Durin  g the years 2015 and 2014, it lowered our net sales growth by 1.2% and 0.5% respectively. 
  In the first quarter of 2014, our sales growth was hampered by a weak economy, foreign exchange rate fluctuations (primarily related to the Canadian dollar), and a severe winter in North America that impacted our customers and our trucking network. This was partly offset by favorable holiday timing in March. The headwinds from the economy and foreign exchange rates persisted in the second quarter of 2014 and the favorable holiday timing in March reversed in April, but the weather effects faded. By May and June results were significantly less 'noisy' and sales to customers engaged in heavy machinery manufacturing, which represents approximately one-fifth of our business, improved. 
  During 2015, our business weakened. This initially involved customers tied to the oil and gas sector, but grew during the course of the year to include customers across additional industries and in geographic areas not typically associated with the oil and gas sector. November and especially December experienced a greater frequency and duration of customer plant shutdowns than is typical of these holiday-affected periods. 
  During 2016, business activity remained generally weak, but stable, throughout the year. In the first quarter of 2016, we returned to growth with a 3.5% increase in net sales over the first quarter of 2015 as the impact of seasonal plant shutdowns in the fourth quarter of 2015 subsided. The period did include some 'noise' related to changing business day counts. For instance there was an extra day in February and March which tends to 'understate' the daily sales growth percentage, and one fewer day in January which tends to 'overstate' the daily sales growth percentage. There was also one extra business day in the period and the Easter holiday shifted into March.  Overall, during the first quarter of 2016, daily sales grew 1.9%. There was 'noise' throughout the second quarter of 2016 as well (one more day in May, one fewer day and the absence of Easter in April), but daily sales growth nonetheless came in at 1.6%. Business conditions looked similar in the third quarter of 2016, with daily sales growth of 1.8%. The fourth quarter of 2016 did show some improvement with daily sales growth of 2.7%, though this more likely reflected an easier comparison than substantive improvement in overall demand. For most of the year, we saw relative weakness from non-residential construction and heavy manufacturing customers and in demand for our fastener products, speaking to the sustained softness in heavy and general industrial markets. Business with our largest customers was also relatively weak, with sales to our top 100 customers rising modestly in the first half of 2016 and falling modestly in the second half of 2016. While these weaknesses were representative of conditions in the United States and Canada, total sales outside of these geographic areas were relatively strong and improved over the course of 2016. 
  
   23 

     Table of Contents  

Sequential Trends: 
  We find it helpful to think about the monthly sequential changes in our business using the analogy of climbing a stairway     This stairway has several predictable landings where there is a pause in the sequential gain (i.e. April, July, and October to December), but generally speaking, climbs from January to October. The October landing then establishes the benchmark for the start of the next year. 
  History has identified these landings in our business cycle. They generally relate to months with impaired business days (certain holidays). The first landing centers on Easter, which alternates between March and April (Easter occurred in March 2016, in April 2015, and in April 2014), the second landing centers on July 4th, and the third landing centers on the approach of winter with its seasonal impact on primarily our construction business and with the Christmas/New Year holidays. The holidays we noted impact the trends because they either move from month-to-month or because they move around during the week (the July 4th and Christmas/New Year holiday impacts are examples of the latter). 
  The tables below show the pattern to the sequential change in our daily sales. The line in the first table labeled 'Benchmark' is an historical average of our sequential daily sales change for the period 1998 to 2013, excluding 2008 and 2009. We believe this time frame serves to show the historical pattern and could serve as a benchmark for current performance. We excluded the 2008 to 2009 time frame because it contains an extreme economic event and we don't believe it is representative. The '2016', '2015', and '2014' lines represent our actual sequential daily sales changes. The '16Delta', '15Delta', and '14Delta' lines indicate the difference between the 'Benchmark' and the actual results in the respective year.    

  In 2017, we will begin to utilize a more recent time frame (a trailing five year average) as our 'New Benchmark'. Our business has changed meaningfully over time, and we believe a benchmark that places greater emphasis on more recent patterns is likely to better reflect potential conditions in the future. For the sake of comparison, we have included in this second table a comparison of 2014, 2015, and 2016 to the new benchmark (2011-2015). 

(1)    The January figures represent the percentage change from the previous October, whereas the remaining figures represent the  percentage change from the previous month. 
  
   24 

     Table of Contents  

A graph of the sequential daily sales change patterns discussed above, including the 'New Benchmark' period of 2011 - 2015, starting with a base of '100' in the previous October and ending with the next October, would be as follows: 
  
  End Market Performance: 
  Fluctuations in end market business     The sequential trends noted above were directly linked to fluctuations in our end markets. To place this in perspective   approximately 50% of our business has historically been with customers engaged in some type of manufacturing, a significant subset of which finds its way into the heavy equipment and oil and gas markets. The daily sales growth rates to these customers, when compared to the same period in the prior year, were as follows: 

Our manufacturing business consists of two subsets: the industrial production business (this is business where we supply products that become part of the finished goods produced by our customers and is sometimes referred to as OEM - original equipment manufacturing) and the maintenance portion (this is business where we supply products that maintain the facility or the equipment of our customers engaged in manufacturing and is sometimes referred to as MRO - maintenance, repair, and operations). The industrial business is more fastener centered, while the maintenance portion is represented by all product categories. 
  The best way to understand the change in our industrial production business is to examine the results in our fastener product line (35% to 40% of our business) which is heavily influenced by changes in our business with heavy equipment manufacturers. From a company perspective, daily sales growth rates of fasteners, when compared to the same period in the prior year, were as follows (note: this information includes   all   end markets): 

25 

     Table of Contents  

By contrast, the best way to understand the change in the maintenance portion of the manufacturing business is to examine the results in our non-fastener product lines. From a company perspective, daily sales growth rates of non-fasteners, when compared to the same period in the prior year, were as follows (note: this information includes   all   end markets): 

The non-fastener business demonstrated greater relative resilience over the last several years, when compared to our fastener business and to the distribution industry in general, due to our industrial vending program. However, this business was not immune to the impact of a weak industrial environment. 
  Our non-residential construction customers have historically represented 20% to 25% of our business. The daily sales growth rates to these customers, when compared to the same period in the prior year, were as follows:   

Our non-residential construction business is heavily influenced by the industrial economy, particularly the energy sector. The volatility and weakness of energy prices has weakened this business, particularly beginning in the second quarter of 2015 and throughout 2016. 
  A graph of the sequential daily sales trends to these two end markets in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , starting with a base of '100' in the previous October and ending with the next October, would be as follows:  
    
  Manufacturing 

26 

     Table of Contents  

Non-Residential Construction 

GROWTH DRIVERS OF OUR BUSINESS 
  Note   Dollar amounts in this section are presented in whole dollars, not thousands. 
  We grow by continuously adding customers and by increasing the activity with each customer. We believe this growth is enhanced by great people located in close proximity to our customers. This allows us to provide a range of services and product availability that our competitors can't easily match. Historically, we expanded our reach by opening stores at a very fast pace. These openings were initially in the United States and expanded beyond the United States beginning in the mid 1990's.  
  For a little perspective, we began our business in 1967 with an idea to sell nuts and bolts (fasteners) through vending machines. We soon learned the technology of the 1960's wasn't ready, and also learned a lot of products didn't fit, so we went to 'Plan B': sell to business users with a direct sales force. It took us a number of years to 'work out the bugs', but ten years later we began to pick up the pace of store openings. After another ten years of expansion we had approximately 50 stores and sales of about $20 million. Our need for cash to fund our growth was growing, as was our desire to allow employee ownership. This led us to a public offering in 1987. 
  In our first ten years of being public (1987 to 1997), we opened stores at an annual rate approaching 30% per year. In the next ten years (1997 to 2007), we opened stores at an annual rate of approximately 10% to 15% and, since 2007, at an annual rate of approximately 1% to 8%. We opened 41 stores in 2015, at an annual rate of approximately 2%, and 40 stores in 2016, at an annual rate of approximately 2%. Our store network forms the foundation of our business strategy, and we will continue to open stores in 2017 as is deemed necessary to sustain and improve our network and support our growth drivers. 
  During our almost 50 years of business existence, we have constantly evolved to better serve the market (as is described in the paragraphs below) and have always been willing to challenge our approach. In our first 20 to 25 years, we closed several store locations because we felt the market was insufficient to operate a profitable 'fastener only' business. Every one of those locations was subsequently 'reopened' when our business model evolved to serve these markets profitably. During the last 20 to 25 years, we have enjoyed continued success with our store-based model, but we continued to challenge our approach. This resulted in our closing approximately 85 stores in the ten years prior to 2014 - not because they weren't successful, but rather because we felt we had a better approach to growth. Since 2014, we have continued to evaluate opportunities for store closings. We use the term closed; however, we consider them to be consolidated into another location since the vast majority are in close proximity to another store. We will continue to evaluate opportunities for store closings/consolidations in the future.  
  
   27 

     Table of Contents  

The following table provides a summary of store closings for each of the last three years and the corresponding analysis period used to measure their profitability. 

There is a short-term cost for closing these stores, and since we believe we will maintain the vast majority of the sales associated with these locations and most of the impacted employees have a nearby store from which to operate, the cost primarily relates to the future commitments at our leased locations. We have recorded the impaired future costs related to these commitments. The related expense was not material as these locations have relatively short lease commitments and minimal leasehold improvements.  
  During the years, our expanding footprint has provided us with greater access to more customers, and we have continued to diversify our growth drivers. This was done to provide existing store personnel with more tools to grow their business organically. In the early 1990's, we began to expand our product lines beyond primarily fasteners, and we added new product knowledge to our bench (the non-fastener products now represent nearly 65% of our sales). This was our first big effort to diversify our growth drivers. The next step began in the mid to late 1990's when we began to add sales personnel with certain specialties or focus. This began with our national accounts group in 1995, and over time has expanded to include individuals dedicated to: (1) sales related to our internal manufacturing division, (2) government sales, (3) internet sales, (4) construction, (5) specific products (most recently metalworking), and (6) industrial vending. Another step occurred at our selling locations (this includes Fastenal stores as well as strategic account stores and Onsite locations) and at our distribution centers, and began with a targeted merchandising and inventory placement strategy that included our 'Customer Service Project' approximately fourteen years ago and our 'Master Stocking Hub' initiative approximately nine years ago. These strategies allowed us to better target where to stock certain products (local store, regional distribution center, master stocking hub, or supplier) and allowed us to improve our fulfillment, lower our freight costs, and improve our ability to serve a broader range of customers. During 2013 and 2014, we expanded our store-based inventory offering around select industries (with an emphasis on fasteners, construction products, and safety products).  
  Beginning in the latter half of 2013, we expanded two key employee groups: (1) the number of employees working in our stores and (2) the number of district and regional leaders supporting our stores. To improve the efficiency, accuracy, and capacity of our distribution centers, we made significant investments into distribution automation over the last several years (a majority of our facilities are now automated, and greater than 85% of our picking occurs at an automated distribution center). Finally, we also added a high frequency distribution center, internally known as T-hub, to support vending and other high frequency selling activities. During 2015 and 2016, we continued to enhance the technology in our automated distribution centers, to sharpen our focus on growing our Onsite business, and to expand our store-based inventory offering ('CSP 16'). This merchandising footprint involves expanded inventory placement at our store locations to enhance same-day delivery capabilities. The theme that shines through in all of these changes is a simple one   invest into and support our sales machine   the local store. 
  Over the last several years, our industrial vending operation has been an expanding component of our store-based business. We believe industrial vending is an important chapter in the Fastenal story; we also believe it will continue to be transformative to industrial distribution, and that we have a 'first mover' advantage. Given this, we have continued investing aggressively to maximize the advantage. 
  
   28 

     Table of Contents  

Our expanded industrial vending portfolio consists of 23 different vending devices, with the FAST 5000 device, our helix-based machine (think candy machine), representing approximately 40% of the installed machines. We have learned much about these devices over the last several years and currently the target monthly revenue ranges from under $1,000 per device to in excess of $3,000 per device. The following two tables provide two views of our data: (1) actual device count regardless of the type of machine and (2) 'machine equivalent' count based on the weighted target monthly revenue of each device (compared to the FAST 5000 device, which has a $2,000 monthly revenue target). For example, the 12-door locker, with target monthly revenue of $750, would be counted as '0.375 machine equivalent' (0.375 = $750/$2,000). 
  The industrial vending information related to contracts signed during each period was as follows: 

The industrial vending information related to installed machines at the end of each period was as follows: 

Note:  In February 2016, we signed an agreement to lease a significant number of industrial vending lockers to one of our customers. As of December 31, 2016, September 30, 2016, and June 30, 2016, we have deployed approximately 15,000, 11,000, and 3,000 devices, respectively, under this agreement. These devices do not generate product revenue and are excluded from the counts noted above. 
  The following table includes some additional statistics regarding our net sales and daily sales growth: 

(1)    The percentage of total net sales (vended and traditional) to customers currently using a vending solution. 
   (2)    The growth in total net sales (vended and traditional) to customers currently using a vending solution compared to the same period in the preceding year. 
  A significant number of our customers utilize a Fastenal vending machine. Indeed, the percent of net sales to customers with industrial vending, at 46.1% in the fourth quarter of 2016, is approaching half of our sales base. Customers utilizing vending have continued to grow faster than our overall business: in the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2016, daily sales to these customers grew 3.6%, 2.7%, 2.4%, and 3.7%, respectively. However, the relative growth of these customers has moderated over the last couple of years as customers taking advantage of the service have grown to be an increasingly significant portion of our total customer base. Put another way, penetration of our customer base with vending solutions has risen to the point where macroeconomic variables that affect the customer increasingly affect machine throughput as well. We believe our installed base of machines and our penetration of our customer base will continue to grow and be a catalyst to  
  
   29 

     Table of Contents  

gaining an increasing share of our customer s MRO spending. This was evident in 2016: our installed machine base increased 13.2% and the daily sales growth of product moving through those machines similarly increased at a rate greater than 10%. Daily sales of our safety product line, which is heavily vended, increased 9.3% in 2016. We believe these factors point to our gaining increasing wallet share with our customers through vending. 
  In addition to the industrial vending operation noted above, which primarily relates to our non-fastener business, we also provide bin stock programs (also known as 'keep fill' programs in the industry) to numerous customers. This business, which relates to both our maintenance customers (MRO fasteners and non-fasteners) and original equipment manufacturers (OEM fasteners), has many similar attributes to our industrial vending relationships. These attributes include a strong relationship with these customers, where we are often their preferred supplier, and a higher frequency of business transactions. This business is performed without the aid of a vending machine, but does make use of the latest scanning technologies, scale systems, and our fully integrated distribution network to manage the supply chain for all sizes of customers. In recent years, we have begun to refer to this business as FMI (Fastenal Managed Inventory). 
  PROFIT DRIVERS OF OUR BUSINESS 
  As we state several times in this document, profit is important to us. For a distribution business, profit and cash flow go hand in hand. Cash flow is what funds our growth, provides us with short-term and long-term flexibility, and enables us to create value for our customers, our employees, our suppliers, and our shareholders. Over time, we grow our profits by continuously working to grow sales and to improve our relative profitability. We achieve our improvements in relative profitability both by improving our gross profit and by structurally lowering our operating and administrative expenses. 
  We also grow our profits by allowing our inherent profitability to shine through - we refer to this as the 'pathway to profit'. The distinction is important. The 'pathway to profit' to which we refer is merely the natural 'per store' leverage that occurs as the average net sales per month of a store increases. There are two diverging trends that occur as a store grows; first, the gross profit percentage at a store generally declines, and second, our operating and administrative expense as a percentage of net sales generally improves. The operating and administrative expense improvement starts on day one, while the gross profit percentage decline typically occurs when the average sales at a store move above $100 thousand per month. Fortunately, the operating and administrative expense improvements typically far outweigh the gross profit percentage declines. 
  The best way to appreciate this dynamic is to look at the cost components of our business. The cost components of a store include the following: (1) cost of sales and (2) operating and administrative expenses. The operating and administrative expenses can be further split into (listed by relative size): (1) people costs (base pay, incentive pay, benefits, training, and payroll related taxes), (2) occupancy costs (facility expenses such as rent, property taxes, repairs, and depreciation on owned facilities, as well as utility costs, equipment expenses, and vending machine related expenses, excluding leased locker equipment), and (3) 'all other' expenses. The largest component of the last category is the vehicles needed in each store to support selling activities. 
  The first component, cost of sales, is directly related to sales and fluctuations in sales. However, it is also heavily influenced by product and customer mix. As is true for the company as a whole, many stores are under-represented by, and seeing superior growth from, the non-fastener product category and/or the large customer category. As these tend to contribute disproportionately to a store's growth and increase in scale, we often see a decline in gross profit as the average monthly net sales of a store increase. Over the long-term and in the absence of offsetting efforts elsewhere in the business (which we address below), we expect these factors to continue to exert pressure on our gross profit percentage. 
  The second component, operating and administrative expenses, does just the opposite, it generally improves as a percentage of net sales. This is due to the fixed nature of our 'open for business' expenses and the attractive incremental profit margin typically realized in our remaining variable expenses. The 'open for business' expenses are the expenses needed to 'just keep the front door open', and they relate to a base staffing level, a base facility cost, and base vehicle costs. These expenses do not generate a profit; however, they create the opportunity for future sales growth that will generate profits. This drives our 'pathway to profit'. 
  
   30 

Table of Contents  

Gross profit     The gross profit percentage during each period was as follows: 

Important factors that impact our gross profit percentage over the long-term are our mix of store sizes, customer sizes, products, geographic locations, end markets, and end market uses (such as industrial production business versus maintenance business). Given the close proximity of our sales personnel to our customer's business, we offer a very high service level with our sales, which is valued by our customers and improves our gross profit. Fasteners, which is currently our largest single product line at 35% to 40% of sales, is our highest gross profit product line given the high transaction cost surrounding the sourcing and supply of the product for our customers. Any reduction in the mix of our sales attributable to fasteners, and particularly maintenance fasteners, may negatively impact gross profit. Larger customers, whose more focused buying patterns allow us to offer them better pricing, also influence gross profit. Stores typically achieve higher average sales disproportionately by growth in the non-fastener product lines and with large customers, causing gross profit to decline as average net sales grow. One final item of note, our fourth quarter has typically been the season with the most challenges surrounding gross profit. This relates to the decline in sales in November and December due to the 'holiday season' and due to the seasonal reduction in non-residential construction business. This drop off in sales reduces the utilization of our trucking network which can also slightly reduce our gross profit. 
  Besides the long-term trends noted above, periods of inflation or deflation and sudden changes in business volume can cause short-term fluctuations in our gross profit percentage by effecting product and customer mix, freight, and sourcing strength that can occur as we leverage buying scale and efficiency. Sudden changes in business volume can also impact our gross profit percentage over the short-term by influencing supplier volume allowances. Our gross profit percentage is also heavily influenced by our store-based compensation programs, which are directly linked to sales growth and gross profit, and incentivize our employees to improve both. 
  During 2016, our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, decreased when compared to 2015. This decrease was primarily caused by changes in product and customer mix. Our gross profit also decreased in the fourth quarter of 2016 when compared to the fourth quarter of 2015 for similar reasons.The sequential increase in our gross profit in the fourth quarter of 2016 relative to the third quarter of 2016 is a reflection of modest positive contributions from several sources, including favorable product mix, lower freight costs, increased sales of Fastenal brands, and the absence of certain costs related to our growth initiatives (e.g., costs related to setting up CSP 16) in previous quarters. 
  During 2015, our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, decreased when compared to 2014. This decrease was primarily driven by changes in product and customer mix. Our gross profit, as a percentage of net sales, also decreased in the fourth quarter of 2015 when compared to the fourth quarter of 2014. We saw a noticeable squeezing of discretionary spending by our customers in November and December of 2015, which produced a noticeable drop in sales of less frequently purchased products. This resulted in all of the drop in gross profit when compared to the third quarter of 2015, and substantially all of the change from the fourth quarter of 2014. 
  During 2014, our gross profit dropped below 51%. The drop was primarily driven by changes in product and customer mix and our strong emphasis on growing average store sales. 
  
   31 

     Table of Contents  

Operating and administrative expenses   - These expenses increased as a percentage of net sales from 2015 to 2016.  
  Historically, our two largest components of operating and administrative expenses have consisted of employee related expenses (approximately 65% to 70%) and occupancy related expenses (approximately 15% to 20%). The remaining expenses cover a variety of items with selling transportation typically being the largest. 
  The three largest components of operating and administrative expenses grew (contracted) as follows for the periods ended December 31 (compared to the same periods in the preceding year):   

  Employee related expenses include: (1) payroll (which includes cash compensation, stock option expense, and profit sharing), (2) health care, (3) personnel development, and (4) social taxes. The increase in 2016, when compared to 2015, was caused by increases in full-time equivalent headcount (see table below) and an increase in health care costs. These increases were partially offset by a contraction in our performance bonuses and commissions, and in our profit sharing contribution, primarily due to lower sales growth, gross profit, and operating income (both on a dollar basis and on a relative basis). The slight increase in 2015, when compared to 2014, was caused by increases in full-time equivalent headcount and growth in our profit sharing contribution, primarily due to our expanding growth in operating income. Offsetting factors included lower performance bonuses and commissions due to the decrease in our gross profit percentage, and a focused reduction in overtime hours paid.  
  Using a monthly average, the FTE headcount grew (contracted) as follows (compared to the same period in the preceding years): 

Occupancy related expenses include: (1) building rent and depreciation, (2) building utility costs, (3) equipment related to our stores and distribution locations, and (4) industrial vending equipment (we consider the vending equipment, excluding leased locker equipment, to be a logical extension of our store operation and classify the depreciation, repair costs, and hosting services as occupancy expense). The increase in 2016, when compared to 2015, was mainly driven by (1) an increase in the amount of industrial vending equipment discussed earlier in this document, and (2) an increase in occupancy expense related to rent. The largest impact came from the industrial vending equipment. The increase in 2015, when compared to 2014, was driven by (1) an increase in the amount of industrial vending equipment as discussed earlier in this document, and (2) an increased investment in our distribution infrastructure over the last several years, primarily related to automation. In 2016 and 2015, the industrial vending component represented approximately 66% and 42%, respectively, of the increase.  
  Our selling transportation costs consist primarily of our store fleet as most of the distribution fleet costs are included in cost of sales. Selling transportation costs included in operating and administrative expenses increased in 2016, when compared to 2015. This was driven by an increase in the number of vehicles for sales personnel, and was partially offset by a decrease in fuel expense. The contraction in selling transportation costs included in operating and administrative expenses in 2015, when compared to 2014, was driven by the decline in fuel costs.  
  The last several years have seen some variation in the cost of diesel fuel and gasoline. During the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2016, our total vehicle fuel costs were approximately $6.4 million, $8.2 million, $8.3 million, and $8.0 million, respectively. During the first, second, third, and fourth quarters of 2015, our total vehicle fuel costs were approximately $8.8 million, $9.1 million, $8.6 million, and $7.8 million, respectively. The fluctuations were a result of: (1) variations in fuel costs, (2) the service levels provided to our stores from our distribution centers, (3) the number of vehicles at our store locations, (4) the number of other sales centered vehicles as a result of store openings and the expansion of our non-store sales force, and (5)  
  
   32 

     Table of Contents  

changes in driving conditions. These fuel costs include the fuel utilized in our distribution vehicles (semi-tractors, straight trucks, and sprinter trucks) which is recorded in cost of sales and the fuel utilized in our store delivery and other sales centered vehicles which is included in operating and administrative expenses (the split in the last several years has been approximately 50/50 between distribution and store and other sales centered use).  
  Income taxes         Income taxes, as a percentage of earnings before income taxes, were approximately 36.8%, 37.5%, and 37.2% for   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. The decrease in our income tax rate from 2015 to 2016 was caused by a slight change in jurisdictional income and changes in the reserve for uncertain tax positions. The increase in our income tax rate from 2014 to 2015 was driven by an increase in valuation allowances on deferred tax assets and changes in the reserve for uncertain tax positions. As our international business and profits grew the past several years, the lower income tax rates in those jurisdictions, relative to the United States, have lowered our effective tax rate. 
   
  Net earnings     Net earnings, net earnings per share (EPS), percentage change in net earnings, and the percentage change in EPS, were as follows: 

During 2016, net earnings decreased, despite our nominal sales growth, primarily due to the reduction in the gross profit percent realized and an increase in operating and administrative expenses (discussed earlier in this document). The contraction of basic and diluted earnings per share was smaller due primarily to the purchase of our shares of common stock in 2015 and early 2016. During 2015, the net earnings increase was greater than that of sales primarily due to the effective management of operating expenses. During 2014,   the net earnings increase was less than that of sales primarily due to the reduction in the gross profit percent realized.    

CASH FLOW IMPACT ITEMS 
  Operational working capital     Operational working capital, which we define as accounts receivable, net and inventories, are highlighted below. The annual dollar change and the annual percentage change were as follows: 

In 2016, the annual growth in net accounts receivables outpaced the growth in sales. This was not the case through the third quarter, and was mostly a function of conditions in the fourth quarter of 2016. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we collected receivables from our seasonally stronger third quarter, but because demand fell off surprisingly sharply in November and December, our fourth quarter receivables were unseasonably low. In the fourth quarter of 2016, by contrast, we collected receivables from our seasonally stronger third quarter, but because demand was more closely in line with seasonal norms, our receivables in the period were similarly more normal. Over a longer period of time, investors should be aware that if we continue to see relatively strong growth in our international business and of our large customer accounts it could create difficulty in managing the growth of accounts receivables relative to the growth in net sales.    
  Our growth in inventory balances over time does not have as direct a relationship to our monthly sales patterns as does our growth in accounts receivable. This is impacted by other aspects of our business. For example, the dramatic economic slowdown in late 2008 and early 2009 caused our inventory to spike. This occurred because the lead time for inventory  
  
   33 

     Table of Contents  

procurement is typically longer than the visibility we have into future monthly sales patterns. Over the last decade, we increased our relative inventory levels due to the following: (1) new store openings, (2) expanded stocking breadth at distribution centers (for example, our master stocking hub in Indianapolis expanded its product breadth over six fold from 2005 to 2011), (3) expanded direct sourcing, (4) expanded Fastenal brands, (5) expanded industrial vending solutions, (6) national accounts and Onsite growth, (7) international growth, and (8) expanded stocking breadth at individual stores related to our CSP initiatives. All of these items impacted both 2016 and 2015. However, throughout 2016, the most significant contributors to the increase in inventories were the impact of infusing incremental inventory into our network beginning at the end of 2015 as part of our CSP 16 initiative, the relative growth of international sales, the growth of our Onsite business, and opportunist product purchases at year-end. Absent the opportunistic product purchases at year-end, growth in inventories would have moderated substantially from earlier in the year, reflecting the stabilizing of CSP 16 inventories. 
  The approximate percentage mix of inventory stocked at our selling locations versus our distribution center and manufacturing locations was as follows at year end: 

New stores open with the standard store model (CSP 16), which consists of a core stocking level of approximately $60 thousand per location. This inventory level grows as the level of business in a store grows. In the fourth quarter of 2015, we began expanding the inventory offering at our existing store locations to the CSP 16 format. This inventory expansion continued throughout 2016. 
    
  As we indicated in earlier communications, our goal is to target a ratio of annual sales to accounts receivable and inventory (Annual Sales: AR I) of approximately a 3.0:1 ratio. On December 31, 2016 and 2015, we had a ratio of 2.7:1 and 2.8:1, respectively. 
   
  Liquidity and Capital Resources: 
  Net cash provided by operating activities     Net cash provided by operating activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: 

In 2016, the slight contraction in the net cash provided by operating activities was driven by our current initiative to add additional products into store inventory under our CSP 16 format, and an increase in net accounts receivable growth. This decrease was partially offset by a reduction in net cash paid for income taxes. In 2015, the increase in the net cash provided by operating activities was driven by growth in net earnings, and a decrease in the cash required to fund our net working capital, which includes accounts receivable and inventory changes. This was partially offset by an increase in cash paid for income taxes.  
  Net cash used in investing activities     Net cash used in investing activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: 

The changes in net cash used in investing activities were primarily related to changes in our net capital expenditures as discussed below and cash paid for acquisitions in 2015 and 2014.  
  
   34 

     Table of Contents  

Net capital expenditures (purchases of property and equipment, less proceeds from the sale of property and equipment) in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: 

Note: A reconciliation of net capital expenditures is outlined in the table below. 
  Our net capital expenditures increased in 2016. This was primarily due to the purchase of industrial vending machines related to the leased locker program we signed in February 2016 and spending on automation in certain distribution centers. Our net capital expenditures decreased in 2015, which was largely related to the completion of distribution automation projects in process during 2014. 
  Property and equipment expenditures in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   consisted of: (1) the purchase of software and hardware for our information processing systems, (2) the addition of certain pick-up trucks, (3) the purchase of signage, shelving, and other fixed assets related to store openings and our CSP initiative, (4) the addition of manufacturing and warehouse equipment, (5) the expansion or improvement of certain owned or leased store properties, (6) the expansion of our distribution/trucking fleet, (7) purchases related to industrial vending, which primarily consists of automated vending equipment and construction of a new centralized distribution facility (2014), and (8) costs related to enhancements to distribution centers with existing automation (2016, 2015, and 2014), and the expansion of our distribution centers in High Point, North Carolina (2016 and 2015), Modesto, California (2014), Scranton, Pennsylvania (2014), and Kitchener, Ontario, Canada (2014). Disposals of property and equipment consisted of the planned disposition of certain pick-up trucks, distribution vehicles and trailers in the normal course of business, and the disposition of real estate relating to several store locations (2016, 2015, and 2014) and a distribution center (2015). 
  Set forth below is an estimate of our   2017   net capital expenditures and a recap of our   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   net capital expenditures. 

We anticipate funding our capital expenditure needs with cash generated from operations, from available cash and cash equivalents, and from our borrowing capacity.  
  Net cash used in financing activities     Net cash used in financing activities in dollars and as a percentage of net earnings were as follows: 

35 

     Table of Contents  

The fluctuations in net cash used in financing activities are due to changes in the level of our dividend payments and in the level of common stock purchases. These amounts were partially offset by the exercise of stock options and the related tax impact, and net borrowings under debt obligations. These items in dollars and as a percentage of earnings were as follows: 

Unremitted Foreign Earnings     Approximately $70,995 of cash and cash equivalents are held by non-U.S. subsidiaries. These funds may create foreign currency translation gains or losses depending on the functional currency of the entity holding the cash. We intend to utilize these funds to support our expansion activities outside the U.S. The income tax impact of repatriating cash associated with certain undistributed earnings is discussed in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Stock Purchases     During 2016, we purchased 1,600,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $37.15 per share. During 2015, we purchased 7,100,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $41.26 per share. During 2014, we purchased 1,200,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of approximately $44.12 per share. 
  Dividends     We declared a quarterly dividend of   $0.32   per share on   January 17, 2017  . We paid aggregate annual dividends per share of   $1.20  , $  1.12  , and $  1.00   in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. 
  Debt     In order to fund the considerable cash needed to purchase industrial vending machines under our leased locker program, to expand our industrial vending business, to increase the use of automation in our distribution centers, and to purchase our common stock and pay dividends, we have borrowed increased amounts under our Credit Facility and our Master Note Agreement in recent periods. 
  Our borrowings under the Credit Facility peaked during each quarter of 2016 and 2015 as follows:  

As of December 31, 2016, we had loans outstanding under the Credit Facility of   $305,000   and contingent obligations from letters of credit outstanding under the Credit Facility in an aggregate face amount of   $36,267  . As of   December 31, 2016  , we also had loans outstanding under the Master Note Agreement of   $75,000  . Descriptions of our Credit Facility and Master Note Agreement are contained in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Effects of Inflation     During the first half of 2016, we experienced some deflation in our fastener products, which was largely offset by some inflation in the latter half of the year, and minimal price movements in our non-fastener products. In 2015 and  
  
   36 

     Table of Contents  

2014, we experienced some deflation in our fastener products and minimal price movements in our non-fastener products, with the net impact being a slight drag on growth.  
   
  Critical Accounting Policies     Our accounting policies related to certain assets and liabilities are an integral part of our consolidated financial statements. These policies are considered critical because they require application of assumptions and judgments based on historical trends and the composition of account balances. Although we believe our reserves are adequate, the results could be materially different if our assumptions and historical trends do not reflect actual results. 
  Allowance for doubtful accounts     This reserve is for accounts receivable balances that are potentially uncollectible. The reserve is based on an analysis of customer accounts and our historical experience with accounts receivable write-offs. Our methodology for estimating this reserve includes ongoing reviews of the aging of accounts receivable, the financial condition of a customer or industry, and general economic conditions. If business or economic conditions change, our estimates and assumptions may be adjusted as deemed appropriate. For fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, actual results did not vary materially from estimated amounts. 
  Inventory reserves     The reserves are for potentially obsolete or excess inventory and shrinkage. The reserves are based on an analysis of inventory trends. The analysis includes reviews of inventory levels, sales information, physical inventory counts, cycle count adjustments, and the on-hand quantities relative to the sales history for the product. Our methodology for estimating these reserves is continually evaluated for factors that could require changes to the reserves including significant changes in product demand, market conditions, condition of the inventory, or liquidation value. If business or economic conditions change, our estimates and assumptions may be adjusted as deemed appropriate. For fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, actual results did not vary materially from estimated amounts. 
  Insurance reserves     These reserves are for general claims related to workers' compensation, property and casualty losses, health claims, and other self-insured losses. The reserves are based on an analysis of external data related to our historical claim trends. We perform ongoing reviews of our insured and uninsured risks and use this information to establish appropriate reserve levels. We analyze historical trends, claims experience, and loss development patterns to ensure the appropriate loss development factors are applied to the incurred costs associated with the claims made. For fiscal years 2016, 2015, and 2014, actual results did not vary materially from estimated amounts. 
  New Accounting Pronouncements 
  A description of new accounting pronouncements is contained in Note 12 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements.  
  Geographic Information 
  Information regarding our revenues and long-lived assets by geographic area is contained in Note 7 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. Risks related to our foreign operations are described earlier in this Form 10-K under the heading 'Forward-Looking Statements' and 'Item 1A. Risk Factors'. 
  Certain Contractual Obligations 
  As of December 31, 2016, we had outstanding long-term debt and facilities, equipment, and vehicles leased under operating leases. Our future obligations to pay principal of and interest on such long-term debt and to make minimum lease payments under such operating leases are as follows: 

(1)    Interest on the long-term debt outstanding under our Credit Facility was calculated using the interest rates and balances at December 31, 2016. 
  Purchase orders and contracts for the purchase of inventory and other goods and services are not included in the table above. Our purchase orders are based on current distribution needs and are fulfilled by our vendors within short time horizons. We do not have significant agreements for the purchase of inventory or other goods or services specifying minimum order quantities. 
  Liabilities for uncertain tax positions have been excluded from the table above due to the uncertainty surrounding the ultimate settlement and timing of these liabilities. A discussion of income taxes is contained in Note 6 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   37 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 7A. 
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISKS 
     We are exposed to certain market risks from changes in foreign currency exchange rates, commodity steel pricing, commodity energy prices, and interest rates. Changes in these factors cause fluctuations in our earnings and cash flows. We evaluate and manage exposure to these market risks as follows: 
  Foreign currency exchange rates     Foreign currency fluctuations can affect our net investments and earnings denominated in foreign currencies. Historically, our primary exchange rate exposure has been with the Canadian dollar against the United States dollar. Our estimated net earnings exposure for foreign currency exchange rates was not material at year end. 
  Commodity steel pricing     We buy and sell various types of steel products; these products consist primarily of different types of threaded fasteners. During the first half of 2016, we experienced some deflation in steel prices. This deflation was largely offset by some inflation in the latter half of the year. In 2015 and 2014, we noted some overall deflation in steel pricing. We are exposed to the impacts of commodity steel pricing and our related ability to pass through the impacts to our end customers. 
  Commodity energy prices     We have market risk for changes in prices of gasoline, diesel fuel, natural gas, and electricity; however, this risk is mitigated in part by our ability to pass freight costs to our customers, the efficiency of our trucking distribution network, and the ability, over time, to manage our occupancy costs related to the heating and cooling of our facilities through better efficiency. 
  Interest rates   - Loans under our Credit Facility bear interest at floating rates tied to LIBOR. As a result, changes in LIBOR can affect our operating results and liquidity to the extent we do not have effective interest rate swap arrangements in place. We have not historically used interest rate swap arrangements to hedge the variable interest rates under our Credit Facility. A 1% increase in LIBOR in 2016 would have resulted in approximately $3.9 million of additional interest expense. A description of our Credit Facility is contained in Note 9 of the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

38 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 8. 
    FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA 
     REPORT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Fastenal Company: 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Fastenal Company and subsidiaries as of December 31,   2016   and   2015  , and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders' equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,   2016  . In connection with our audits of the consolidated financial statements, we also have audited the financial statement schedule listed in the table of contents at Item 15. We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO). Fastenal Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management's Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements and the financial statement schedule and an opinion on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States). Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the financial statements are free of material misstatement and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included examining, on a test basis, evidence supporting the amounts and disclosures in the financial statements, assessing the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, and evaluating the overall financial statement presentation. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
  A company's internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of Fastenal Company and subsidiaries as of December 31,   2016   and   2015  , and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31,   2016  , in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. Also, in our opinion, the related financial statement schedule, when considered in relation to the basic consolidated financial statements taken as a whole, presents fairly, in all material respects, the information set forth therein. Also in our opinion, Fastenal Company and subsidiaries maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  , based on criteria established in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by COSO. 
    
  /s/    KPMG LLP 
  Minneapolis, Minnesota 
  February 6, 2017    

39 

Table of Contents  

FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Balance Sheets 
  (Amounts in thousands except share information) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   40 

Table of Contents  

FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Statements of Earnings 
  (Amounts in thousands except earnings per share) 
  For the year ended December 31 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   41 

Table of Contents  

FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income 
  (Amounts in thousands) 
  For the year ended December 31 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 

42 

Table of Contents  

FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity 
  (Amounts in thousands) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   43 

Table of Contents  

FASTENAL COMPANY AND SUBSIDIARIES 
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows 
  (Amounts in thousands) 
  For the year ended December 31 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   44 

Table of Contents  

Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
   
  Note 1. Business Overview and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
  Business Overview 
  Fastenal is a leader in the wholesale distribution of industrial and construction supplies operating a store-based business with approximately   2,500   locations. These locations are primarily in North America. 
  Principles of Consolidation 
  The consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Fastenal Company and its subsidiaries (collectively referred to as 'Fastenal' or by terms such as 'we', 'our', or 'us'). All material intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated in consolidation. 
  Revenue Recognition and Accounts Receivable 
  Net sales include products, services, shipping and handling charges, and lease fees billed, net of any related sales incentives, and net of an estimate for product returns. We recognize revenue when persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists, title and risk of ownership have passed, the sales price is fixed or determinable, and collectibility is reasonably assured. These criteria are met at the time the product is shipped to or picked up by the customer. We recognize services at the time the service is completed and product is provided to the customer. We recognize revenue for shipping and handling charges at the time the products are shipped to or picked up by the customer. We recognize revenue for lease fees on a straight-line basis over the corresponding lease term. We estimate product returns based on historical return rates. Accounts receivable are stated at their estimated net realizable value. The allowance for doubtful accounts is based on an analysis of customer accounts and our historical experience with accounts receivable write-offs. Sales taxes (and value added taxes in foreign jurisdictions) collected from customers and remitted to governmental authorities are accounted for on a net basis and therefore are excluded from net sales. 
  Foreign Currency Translation and Transactions 
  The functional currency of our foreign operations is typically the applicable local currency. The functional currency is translated into United States dollars for balance sheet accounts, except retained earnings, using current exchange rates as of the balance sheet date, for retained earnings at historical exchange rates, and for revenue and expense accounts using a weighted average exchange rate during the period. The translation adjustments are deferred as a separate component of stockholders' equity captioned accumulated other comprehensive income (loss). Gains or losses resulting from transactions denominated in foreign currencies are included in cost of sales or operating and administrative expenses. 
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
  We consider all investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. 
  Financial Instruments and Marketable Securities 
  All financial instruments are carried at amounts that approximate fair value. The fair value is the price at which an asset could be exchanged in a current transaction between knowledgeable, willing parties. Assets measured at fair value are categorized based upon the lowest level of significant input to the valuations. Level 1 inputs are quoted prices (unadjusted) in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. Level 2 inputs are quoted prices for similar assets and liabilities in active markets or inputs that are observable for the asset or liability, either directly or indirectly through market corroboration. Level 3 inputs are unobservable inputs based upon our own assumptions used to measure assets and liabilities at fair value. In determining fair value we use observable market data when available. 
  Due to the varying short-term cash needs of our business, we periodically have available-for-sale marketable securities. We did not have any marketable securities as of December 31,   2016   or December 31,   2015  . Available-for-sale securities are recorded at fair value based on current market value. Unrealized holding gains and losses on available-for-sale securities are excluded from earnings but are included in accumulated other comprehensive income (loss) as a separate component of stockholders' equity until realized. If a decline in the market value of any available-for-sale security is below cost and is deemed other than temporary, it is charged to net earnings resulting in the establishment of a new cost basis for the security. 
  
   45 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Inventories 
  Inventories, consisting of finished goods merchandise held for resale, are stated at the lower of cost (first in, first out method) or market. 
  Property and Equipment 
  Property and equipment are stated at cost. Depreciation on property and equipment is provided for using the straight-line method over the anticipated economic useful lives of the related property. Long-lived assets are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset may not be recoverable. If circumstances require a long-lived asset or asset group be tested for possible impairment, we first compare undiscounted cash flows expected to be generated by the asset or asset group to its carrying value. If the carrying value of the long-lived asset or asset group is not recoverable on an undiscounted cash flow basis, an impairment is recognized to the extent the carrying value exceeds its fair value. Fair value is determined through various valuation techniques including discounted cash flow models, quoted market values, and third-party independent appraisals, as considered necessary. There were   no   impairments recorded during any of the three years reported in these consolidated financial statements. 
  Leases 
  We lease space under operating leases for certain distribution centers, stores, and manufacturing locations. These leases do not have significant rent escalation holidays, concessions, leasehold improvement incentives, or other build-out clauses. Any such terms are recognized as rent expense over the term of the lease. Further, the leases do not contain contingent rent provisions. Leasehold improvements on operating leases are amortized over their estimated service lives on a straight-line basis, or the remaining lease term, whichever is shorter. We lease certain semi-tractors, pick-ups, and equipment under operating leases. 
  Other Long-Lived Assets 
  Other assets consist of prepaid deposits, goodwill, non-compete agreements, and other related intangible assets. Goodwill represents the excess of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired. Goodwill is reviewed for impairment annually. The non-compete and related intangible assets are amortized on a straight-line basis over their estimated life. 
  Accounting Estimates 
  The preparation of the consolidated financial statements in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles (GAAP) requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities, revenues and expenses, and the disclosure of contingent liabilities. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
  Insurance Reserves 
  We are self-insured for certain losses relating to medical, dental, workers' compensation, and other casualty losses. Specific stop loss coverage is provided for catastrophic claims in order to limit exposure to significant claims. Losses and claims are charged to operations when it is probable a loss has been incurred and the amount can be reasonably estimated. Accrued insurance liabilities are based on claims filed but unpaid and estimates of claims incurred but not reported. 
  Product Warranties 
  We offer a basic limited warranty for certain of our products. The specific terms and conditions of those warranties vary depending upon the product sold. We typically recoup these costs through product warranties we hold with the original equipment manufacturers. Our warranty expense has historically been minimal. 
  Stock-Based Compensation 
  We estimate the value of stock option grants using a Black-Scholes valuation model. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized on a straight-line basis over the vesting period. Our stock-based compensation expense is recorded in operating and administrative expenses.  
  We report the benefits of tax deductions in excess of recognized stock-based compensation as cash flows from financing activities, thereby reducing net cash flows from operating activities and increasing net cash flows from financing activities.  

46 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Income Taxes 
  We account for income taxes under the asset and liability method. Under this method, deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date.    
  We recognize the effect of income tax positions only if those positions are more likely than not to be sustained. Recognized income tax positions are measured at the largest amount that is greater than 50% likely of being realized. Changes in recognition or measurement are reflected in the period in which the change in judgment occurs. We record interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits in income tax expense. 
  Earnings Per Share 
  Basic net earnings per share is calculated using net earnings available to common stockholders divided by the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the year. Diluted net earnings per share is similar to basic net earnings per share except that the weighted average number of shares of common stock outstanding includes the incremental shares assumed to be issued upon the exercise of stock options considered to be 'in-the-money' (i.e. when the market price of our stock is greater than the exercise price of our outstanding stock options). 
  Segment Reporting 
  We have determined that for our North American operations we meet the aggregation criteria outlined in the accounting standards as our various operations have similar (1) economic characteristics, (2) products and services, (3) customers, (4) distribution channels, and (5) regulatory environments. Considering the insignificance of our operations outside of North America, we report as a single business segment. 
   
  Note 2. Long-Lived Assets 
  Property and equipment 
  Property and equipment at year end consisted of the following: 

47 

Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Note 3. Accrued Expenses 
  Accrued expenses at year end consisted of the following: 

Note 4. Stockholders' Equity 
  Dividends 
  On   January 17, 2017  , our board of directors declared a quarterly dividend of   $0.32   per share of common stock to be paid in cash on   February 28, 2017   to shareholders of record at the close of business on   February 1, 2017  . We paid aggregate annual dividends per share of   $1.20  ,   $1.12  , and   $1.00   in   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively.  
  Stock Options 
  Effective January 3, 2017, the compensation committee of our board of directors granted to our employees options to purchase a total of   764,789   shares of our common stock at an exercise strike price of   $47.00   per share. The closing stock price on the effective date of the grant was   $46.95   per share.  
  The following tables summarize the details of options granted under our stock option plan that were still outstanding as of December 31, 2016, and the assumptions used to value those grants. All such grants were effective at the close of business on the date of grant. 

48 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

All of the options in the tables above vest and become exercisable over a period of up to   eight   years. Generally, each option will terminate approximately   nine years   after the grant date. 
  The fair value of each share-based option is estimated on the date of grant using a Black-Scholes valuation method that uses the assumptions listed above. The risk-free interest rate is based on the U.S. Treasury rate over the expected life of the option at the time of grant. The expected life is the average length of time over which we expect the employee groups will exercise their options, which is based on historical experience with similar grants. The dividend yield is estimated over the expected life of the option based on our current dividend payout, historical dividends paid, and expected future cash dividends. Expected stock volatilities are based on the movement of our stock price over the most recent historical period equivalent to the expected life of the option. 
  A summary of activities under our stock option plan consisted of the following: 

(1)    Weighted average exercise price. 
   (2)    Weighted average remaining contractual life in years. 
  The total intrinsic value of stock options exercised during the years ended   December 31, 2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   was   $23,236  ,   $14,174  , and   $7,466  , respectively. The intrinsic value represents the difference between the exercise price and fair value of the underlying shares at the date of exercise.  
  At   December 31, 2016  , there was   $14,455   of total unrecognized stock-based compensation expense related to outstanding unvested stock options granted under the plan. This expense is expected to be recognized over a weighted average period of   4.56   years. Any future change in estimated forfeitures will impact this amount. The total grant date fair value of stock options vested under our stock option plan during   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014   was   $7,083  ,   $5,143  , and   $7,287  , respectively. 
  
   49 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Total stock-based compensation expense related to our stock option plan was   $4,100  ,   $5,841  , and   $7,039   for   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. 
  Earnings Per Share 
  The following tables present a reconciliation of the denominators used in the computation of basic and diluted earnings per share and a summary of the options to purchase shares of common stock which were excluded from the diluted earnings calculation because they were anti-dilutive: 

Any dilutive impact summarized above related to periods when the average market price of our stock exceeded the exercise price of the potentially dilutive stock options then outstanding. 
   
  Note 5. Retirement Savings Plan 
  The Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 401(k) and Employee Stock Ownership Plan covers all of our employees in the United States. Our employees in Canada may participate in a Registered Retirement Savings Plan. The general purpose of both of these plans is to provide additional financial security during retirement by providing employees with an incentive to make regular savings contributions. In addition to the participation of our employees, we make annual profit sharing contributions based on an established formula. The expense recorded under this profit sharing formula was approximately   $8,665  ,   $13,669  , and   $11,460   for   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014  , respectively. 
   
  Note 6. Income Taxes 
  Earnings before income taxes were derived from the following sources: 

Components of income tax expense (benefit) were as follows: 

50 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Income tax expense in the accompanying consolidated financial statements differed from the expected expense as follows: 

The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to deferred income tax assets and liabilities at year end consisted of the following:    

A reconciliation of the beginning and ending amount of total gross unrecognized tax benefits was as follows: 

Included in the liability for gross unrecognized tax benefits is an immaterial amount for interest and penalties, both of which we classify as a component of income tax expense. The amount of gross unrecognized tax benefits that would favorably impact the effective tax rate, if recognized, is not material. We do not anticipate significant changes in total unrecognized tax benefits during the next twelve months. 
  
   51 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Fastenal files income tax returns in the United States federal jurisdiction, all states, and various local and foreign jurisdictions. With limited exceptions, we are no longer subject to income tax examinations by taxing authorities for taxable years before 2014 in the case of United States federal examinations, and 2012 in the case of foreign, state, and local examinations. 
  In general, it is our practice and intention to permanently reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries and repatriate earnings only when the tax impact is zero or very minimal. As of   December 31, 2016  , we have not made a provision for United States income taxes or for additional foreign withholding taxes on   $147,000   of unremitted earnings. Such earnings are considered to be indefinitely reinvested and, accordingly, no U.S. federal or state deferred income taxes have been provided on this amount or any additional excess of the amount for financial reporting over the tax basis of investments in foreign subsidiaries. Earnings is the most significant component of the basis difference which is indefinitely reinvested. Generally, such amounts become subject to United States taxation upon the remittance of dividends and under certain other circumstances. It is not practicable to estimate the amount of deferred income tax liabilities related to investments in these foreign subsidiaries.  
   
  Note 7. Geographic Information 
  Our revenues and long-lived assets related to the following geographic areas: 

The accounting policies of the operations in the various geographic areas are the same as those described in the summary of significant accounting policies. Long-lived assets consist of net property and equipment, deposits, goodwill, and other net intangibles. Revenues are attributed to countries based on the location of the store from which the sale occurred. In each of the years presented in the table above,   no   single customer represented 5% or more of our consolidated net sales. 
   
  Note 8. Operating Leases 
  We lease space under non-cancelable operating leases for several distribution centers, several manufacturing locations, and certain store locations. These leases do not have significant rent escalation holidays, concessions, leasehold improvement incentives, or other build-out clauses. Any such terms are recognized as rent expense over the term of the lease. Further, the leases do not contain contingent rent provisions. The net book value of leasehold improvements at   December 31, 2016   was   $3,122  . We lease certain semi-tractors and pick-ups under operating leases. Future minimum lease payments for all operating leases are as follows: 

52 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Rent expense under all operating leases was as follows: 

Certain operating leases for pick-up trucks contain residual value guarantee provisions which would generally become due at the expiration of the operating lease agreement if the fair value of the leased vehicles is less than the guaranteed residual value. The aggregate residual value guarantee related to these leases was approximately   $76,808  . We believe the likelihood of funding the guarantee obligation under any provision of the operating lease agreements is remote other than where we have established an accrual for estimated losses, which was immaterial at   December 31, 2016  . To the extent our fleet contains vehicles we estimate will settle at a gain, such gains on these vehicles will be recognized when we sell the vehicle. 
   
  Note 9. Debt Commitments and Contingencies 
  Credit Facility, Notes Payable, and Commitments 
  Debt obligations and letters of credit outstanding at year end consisted of the following: 

Unsecured Revolving Credit Facility 
  We have a   $700,000   committed unsecured revolving credit facility ('Credit Facility'). The Credit Facility includes a committed letter of credit subfacility of   $55,000  . The commitments under the Credit Facility will expire (and any borrowings outstanding under the Credit Facility will become due and payable) on   March 1, 2018  . In the next twelve months, we have the ability and intent to repay a portion of the outstanding loans using cash; therefore, we have classified this portion as a current liability. The Credit Facility contains certain financial and other covenants, and our right to borrow under the Credit Facility is conditioned upon, among other things, our compliance with these covenants. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. 
  Borrowings under the Credit Facility generally bear interest at a rate per annum equal to the London Interbank Offered Rate ('LIBOR') for interest periods of various lengths selected by us, plus   0.95%  . Based on the interest periods we have chosen, our weighted per annum interest rate at   December 31, 2016   was approximately   1.7%  . We pay a commitment fee for the unused portion of the Credit Facility. This fee is either   0.10%   or   0.125%   per annum based on our usage of the Credit Facility. 
  Senior Unsecured Promissory Notes Payable 
  On July 20, 2016 (the 'Effective Date'), we entered into a master note agreement (the 'Master Note Agreement') with certain institutional lenders, pursuant to which, during the period commencing on the Effective Date and ending   three years   thereafter, we may issue at our discretion in private placements, and the institutional lenders may purchase at their discretion, senior unsecured promissory notes of the Company (the 'Notes') in the aggregate principal amount outstanding from time to time of up to   $200,000  . The Notes will bear interest at either a fixed rate, or a floating rate based on LIBOR for an interest period of   one  ,   three  , or   six months  . The Notes will mature no later than   12 years   after the date of issuance thereof, in the case of fixed rate Notes, or   10 years   after the date of issuance thereof, in the case of floating rate Notes. All of the Notes will be prepayable at our option in whole or in part. The Master Note Agreement contains certain financial and other covenants. We are currently in compliance with these covenants. 
  
   53 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Two   series of unsecured senior Notes are currently outstanding under the Master Note Agreement, each of which was issued on the Effective Date. The first series of Notes ('Series A') is in an aggregate principal amount of   $40,000  , is due and payable in full on July 20, 2021, and bears interest at a fixed rate of   2.00%   per annum. The second series of Notes ('Series B') is in an aggregate principal amount of   $35,000  , is due and payable in full on July 20, 2022, and bears interest at a fixed rate of   2.45%   per annum. There is no amortization of the Series A and Series B Notes prior to their maturity dates. Interest on such Notes is payable quarterly in arrears on January 20, April 20, July 20, and October 20 of each year, beginning on October 20, 2016. The carrying value of our Series A and Series B Notes approximates fair value. The fair value was based on available external pricing data and current market rates for similar debt instruments, among other factors, which are classified as level 2 inputs within the fair value hierarchy. 
  Note Payable Under Asset Purchase Agreement 
  On December 7, 2015, we signed an agreement to purchase, effective January 2, 2017 ('Asset Purchase Effective Date'), certain assets related to the collection and management of certain portions of our business and financial data from Apex Industrial Technologies, LLC ('Apex'), a provider of automated point-of-use dispensing and supply chain technologies. The agreement includes a transition arrangement which requires us to assume responsibility for certain software that is licensed by Apex. The total consideration for the assets is   $27,000  , of which   $12,000   was paid in cash in December 2015 in advance of the Asset Purchase Effective Date. The remaining   $15,000   is payable in installments pursuant to an unsecured note. The first   $5,000   installment was paid in December 2016, while the   two   remaining installments of   $5,000   each will be paid in June 2017 and December 2017. The note bears interest at an annual rate of   0.56%  . Interest on the unpaid principal balance of the note is due and payable on the last day of each calendar quarter. In 2015, the   $15,000   note represented a non-cash investing and financing activity in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, while the payments made in 2016 and 2015 are included in our Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows as net cash used in investing activities in 'Other'. 
  Legal Contingencies 
  We are involved in certain legal actions. The outcomes of these legal actions are not within our complete control and may not be known for prolonged periods of time. In some actions, the claimants seek damages, as well as other relief, that could require significant expenditures or result in lost revenues. We record a liability for these legal actions when a loss is known or considered probable and the amount can be reasonably estimated. If the reasonable estimate of a known or probable loss is a range, and no amount within the range is a better estimate than any other, the minimum amount of the range is accrued. If a loss is reasonably possible but not known or probable, and can be reasonably estimated, the estimated loss or range of loss is disclosed. In most cases, significant judgment is required to estimate the amount and timing of a loss to be recorded. As of   December 31, 2016  , there were no litigation matters that we consider to be probable or reasonably possible to have a material adverse outcome. 
  
   54 

Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

Note 10. Sales by Product Line 
  The percentages of our sales by product line were as follows: 

(1)    Fastener product line represents fasteners and miscellaneous supplies. 
   (2)    The safety supplies product line has expanded, as a percentage of sales, in the last several years due to our industrial vending program. 
   (3)    Direct ship represents a cross section of products from the remaining product lines. The items included here represent certain items with historically low margins which are shipped directly from our distribution channel to our customers, bypassing our store network. 
   
  Note 11. Subsequent Events 
  We evaluated all subsequent event activity and concluded that no subsequent events have occurred that would require recognition in the consolidated financial statements or disclosure in the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements, with the exception of the dividend declaration and stock option grant disclosed in Note 4. 
   
  Note 12. New Accounting Pronouncements 
  In August 2015, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ('FASB') issued Accounting Standards Update ('ASU') 2015-14,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers (Topic 606): Deferral of the Effective Date,   which defers the effective date of ASU 2014-09 for all entities by one year. This update is effective for public business entities for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2017, including interim periods within those reporting periods. Earlier application is permitted only as of annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016, including interim reporting periods within that reporting period. ASU 2014-09 was to become effective for us beginning January 2017. ASU 2015-14 defers our effective date until January 2018 which is when we plan to adopt this standard. The ASU permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method), or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (the cumulative catch-up transition method). The ASU also requires expanded disclosures relating to the nature, amount, timing, and uncertainty of revenue and cash flows arising from contracts with customers. Additionally, qualitative and quantitative disclosures are required about customer contracts, significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from the costs to obtain or fulfill a contract. While we are still in the process of evaluating the effect of adoption on our consolidated financial statements and are currently assessing our contracts with customers, we do not currently expect a material impact on our results of operations, cash flows or financial position. We anticipate we will expand our consolidated financial statement disclosures in order to comply with the new ASU. We have not yet concluded on our transition method upon adoption, but plan to select a transition method by the middle of 2017.  
  In February 2016, FASB issued ASU 2016-02,   Leases  , which introduces the recognition of lease assets and lease liabilities by lessees for those leases classified as operating leases under previous guidance. The guidance will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2018 and interim periods within those fiscal years with early adoption permitted. The guidance will be applied on a modified retrospective basis with the earliest period presented. Based on the  
  
   55 

     Table of Contents  
  Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements Continued 

effective date, this guidance would apply beginning January 2019 which is when we plan to adopt this ASU.    While we are still in the process of evaluating the effect of adoption on our consolidated financial statements and are currently assessing our leases,   we expect the adoption will lead to a material increase in the assets and liabilities recorded on our consolidated balance sheet. As part of our assessment, we will need to determine the impact of lease extension provisions provided in our facility and vehicle leases which will impact the amount of the right of use asset and lease liability recorded under the new ASU. 
  In March 2016, the FASB issued ASU 2016-09,   Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting  . The standard     simplifies several aspects of the accounting for employee share-based payment transactions, including accounting for income taxes, forfeitures, and statutory tax withholdings requirements, as well as classification in the consolidated statement of cash flows. The guidance will be effective for annual reporting periods beginning after December 15, 2016 and interim periods within those fiscal years. We are currently evaluating the impact of the updated guidance and believe the adoption of the guidance will impact our accounting for excess tax benefits and deficiencies. We are in the process of determining the financial statement impact and are currently unable to estimate the impact on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. 
   
  Note 13. Selected Quarterly Financial Data (Unaudited) 
  (Amounts in thousands except per share information) 

(1)    Amounts may not foot due to rounding difference. 
  ***End of Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements*** 
  
   56 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE 
     None. 

ITEM 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES 
     Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
  As of the end of the period covered by this report, we conducted an evaluation, under the supervision and with the participation of our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, of our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the 'Securities Exchange Act')). Based on this evaluation, the principal executive officer and principal financial officer concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Securities Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized, and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms, and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including the principal executive officer and principal financial officer, to allow for timely decisions regarding required disclosure. 
  
   57 

     Table of Contents  

Attestation Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  The attestation report required under this item is contained earlier in this Form 10-K under the heading 'Item 8, Financial Statements and Supplementary Data'. 
  Management's Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting 
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Securities Exchange Act. The Company's internal control over financial reporting is designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The Company's internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that: 
           (i) 
    pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the Company; 
              (ii) 
    provide reasonable assurance that the transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the Company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the Company; and 
              (iii) 
    provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use or disposition of the Company's assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
     Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
  Under the supervision of our principal executive officer and our principal financial officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the framework in   Internal Control   Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. Based on our assessment and those criteria, management believes that the Company maintained effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31,   2016  . There was no change in the Company's internal control over financial reporting during the Company's most recently completed fiscal quarter that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company's internal control over financial reporting. 

/s/    Daniel L. Florness 
      
    /s/    Holden Lewis 
      Daniel L. Florness 
      
    Holden Lewis 
      President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

Winona, Minnesota 

February 6, 2017 

ITEM 9B. 
    OTHER INFORMATION 
     None. 
  
   58 

Table of Contents  

PART III 

ITEM 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS, AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings 'Proposal #1 Election of Directors', 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Board Leadership Structure and Committee Membership', 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Audit Committee', and 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance' in the Proxy Statement.  
  There have been no material changes to the procedures by which security holders may recommend nominees to the board of directors since our last report. 
  In January 2004, our board of directors adopted a supplement to our existing standards of conduct designed to qualify the standards of conduct as a code of ethics within the meaning of Item 406(b) of Regulation S-K promulgated by the SEC ('Code of Ethics'). The standards of conduct, as supplemented, apply to all of our directors, officers, and employees, including without limitation our chief executive officer, chief financial officer, principal accounting officer, and controller (if any), and persons performing similar functions ('Senior Financial Officers'). Those portions of the standards of conduct, as supplemented, that constitute a required element of a Code of Ethics are available without charge by submitting a request to us pursuant to the directions detailed under 'Does Fastenal have a Code of Conduct?' on the 'Investor FAQs' page of the 'Investor Relations' section of our website at www.fastenal.com. In the event we amend or waive any portion of the standards of conduct, as supplemented, that constitutes a required element of a Code of Ethics and such amendment or waiver applies to any of our Senior Financial Officers, we intend to post on our website, within four business days after the date of such amendment or waiver, a brief description of such amendment or waiver, the name of each Senior Financial Officer to whom the amendment or waiver applies, and the date of the amendment or waiver. 
  The executive officers of Fastenal Company are: 
                         Name 
    Employee of 
  Fastenal 
  Since 
      
    Age 
      
    Position 
      Daniel L. Florness 
    1996 
      
    53 
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer, and Director 
      William J. Drazkowski 
    1995 
      
    45 
      
    Executive Vice President   National Accounts Sales 
      Leland J. Hein 
    1985 
      
    56 
      
    Senior Executive Vice President   Sales 
      James C. Jansen 
    1992 
      
    46 
      
    Executive Vice President   Manufacturing 
      Holden Lewis 
    2016 
      
    47 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      Sheryl A. Lisowski 
    1994 
      
    49 
      
    Controller, Chief Accounting Officer, and Treasurer 
      Nicholas J. Lundquist 
    1979 
      
    59 
      
    Senior Executive Vice President   Operations 
      Charles S. Miller 
    1999 
      
    42 
      
    Executive Vice President   Sales 
      Terry M. Owen 
    1999 
      
    48 
      
    Senior Executive Vice President   Sales Operations 
      Gary A. Polipnick 
    1983 
      
    54 
      
    Executive Vice President   FAST Solutions      
      John L. Soderberg 
    1993 
      
    45 
      
    Executive Vice President   Information Technology 
      Jeffery M. Watts 
    1996 
      
    45 
      
    Executive Vice President   International Sales 
      Reyne K. Wisecup 
    1988 
      
    53 
      
    Senior Executive Vice President   Human Resources and Director 

Mr. Florness has been our president and chief executive officer since January 2016. From December 2002 to December 2015, Mr. Florness was an executive vice president and our chief financial officer. From June 1996 to November 2002, Mr. Florness was our chief financial officer. During his time as chief financial officer, Mr. Florness' responsibilities expanded beyond finance, including leadership of product development and procurement and the company's national accounts business. Mr. Florness has served as one our directors since January 2016. 
  Mr. Drazkowski has been our executive vice president - national accounts sales since December 2016. From October 2014 to December 2016, Mr. Drazkowski was our vice president - national accounts sales. From September 2013 to September 2014, he served as regional vice president of our Minnesota based region, and from November 2007 to August 2013, he served as one of our district managers. Prior to November 2007, Mr. Drazkowski served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  Mr. Hein has been our senior executive vice president   sales since January 2016. Mr. Hein's responsibilities include sales and operational oversight of our western United States business. From July 2015 to December 2015, Mr. Hein was our chief operating officer. Mr. Hein was our president and chief executive officer from January 2015 to July 2015, and our president from July 2012 to December 2014. From November 2007 to July 2012, Mr. Hein was one of our executive vice presidents   sales. Prior to November 2007, Mr. Hein served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  
   59 

     Table of Contents  

Mr. Jansen has been our executive vice president   manufacturing since January 2016. Mr. Jansen's responsibilities include oversight of our manufacturing operations. From December 2010 to December 2015, Mr. Jansen was our executive vice president - operations. From November 2007 to December 2010, Mr. Jansen was our executive vice president   internal operations. From May 2005 to November 2007, Mr. Jansen served as our leader of systems development (this role encompassed both information systems and distribution systems development). From April 2000 to April 2005, Mr. Jansen served as sales leader of our Texas based region. 
  Mr. Lewis has been our executive vice president and chief financial officer since August 2016. From April 2016 to July 2016, Mr. Lewis was a senior vice president/equity research-industrial technology with FBR Capital Markets   Co. (a full-service investment bank). From September 2014 to January 2016, Mr. Lewis was a managing director/equity research-industrial technology with Oppenheimer   Co Inc. (a full-service investment bank). From August 2002 to August 2014, Mr. Lewis was a managing director/equity research-industrial manufacturing   distribution with BB T Capital Markets, a division of BB T Securities LLC (a full-service investment bank). Prior to August 2002, Mr. Lewis held similar roles with various other organizations since 1994. In each of Mr. Lewis' positions prior to joining Fastenal, he was responsible for studying the strategic and financial direction of companies for the purpose of making investment recommendations to institutional clients. 
  Ms. Lisowski has been our controller, chief accounting officer, and treasurer since August 2016. Ms. Lisowski was our controller and chief accounting officer from October 2013 to August 2016, and also served as our interim chief financial officer from January 2016 to August 2016. From March 2007 to October 2013, Ms. Lisowski served as our controller   accounting operations. Ms. Lisowski joined Fastenal in 1994 and, prior to March 2007, served in various roles of increasing responsibility within our finance and accounting team. 
  Mr. Lundquist has been our senior executive vice president - operations since December 2016. Mr. Lundquist's responsibilities include distribution development, product development, supplier development, and supply chain. From July 2012 to December 2016, Mr. Lundquist was our executive vice president - operations. From November 2007 to July 2012, he was one of our executive vice presidents - sales, and from December 2002 to November 2007, he was our executive vice president and chief operating officer. 
  Mr. Miller has been our executive vice president - sales since November 2015. Mr. Miller's responsibilities include sales and operational oversight of our eastern United States business. From January 2009 to October 2015, Mr. Miller served as regional vice president of our southeast central region based primarily in Tennessee and Kentucky. Prior to January 2009, Mr. Miller served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  Mr. Owen has been our senior executive vice president   sales operations since January 2016. Mr. Owen's responsibilities include oversight of our information technology, sales operations and support, international sales, national accounts, FAST Solutions       , and manufacturing operations. From July 2015 to December 2015, Mr. Owen was one of our executive vice president   sales. From May 2014 to June 2015, Mr. Owen served as our executive vice president   e-business, and from December 2007 to May 2014, Mr. Owen was regional vice president of our Texas based and Mexico regions. Prior to December 2007, Mr. Owen served in various distribution center leadership roles at our Company. 
  Mr. Polipnick has been our executive vice president   FAST Solutions        since January 2016. Mr. Polipnick's responsibilities include our FAST Solutions        programs and store inventory modeling and merchandising programs. From July 2015 to December 2015, Mr. Polipnick was our executive vice president   e-business. From July 2012 to June 2015, Mr. Polipnick served as one of our executive vice president   sales. From November 2007 to July 2012, Mr. Polipnick was regional vice president of our Winona based region. Prior to November 2007, Mr. Polipnick served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  Mr. Soderberg has been our executive vice president   information technology since May 2016. From May 2014 to May 2016, Mr. Soderberg served as our executive vice president - sales operations and support. From April 2010 to May 2014, Mr. Soderberg was one of our vice presidents   sales. From April 2005 to April 2010, Mr. Soderberg served as regional vice president of our Washington based region. Prior to April 2005, Mr. Soderberg served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  Mr. Watts has been our executive vice president - international sales since December 2016. From March 2015 to December 2016, Mr. Watts was our vice president - international sales. From June 2005 to February 2015, he served as regional vice president of our Canadian region. Prior to June 2005, Mr. Watts served in various sales leadership roles at our Company. 
  Ms. Wisecup has been our senior executive vice president - human resources since December 2016. From November 2007 to December 2016, Ms. Wisecup was our executive vice president - human resources. Prior to November 2007, she served in various support roles, including director of employee development. Ms. Wisecup has also served as one of our directors since 2000. 
  The executive officers are elected by our board of directors for a term of one year and serve until their successors are elected and qualified. None of our executive officers is related to any other such executive officer or to any of our directors. 
  
   60 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Compensation Committee Interlocks and Insider Participation', 'Executive Compensation', and 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Compensation of our Directors' in the Proxy Statement. 
   
           ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the heading 'Security Ownership of Principal Shareholders and Management' in the Proxy Statement. 
  Equity Compensation Plan Information 
                         Plan Category 
    Number of Securities to 
  be Issued Upon Exercise 
  of Outstanding Options, 
  Warrants, and Rights 
      
    Weighted-Average Exercise 
  Price of Outstanding 
  Options, Warrants, and 
  Rights 
      
    Number of Securities 
  Remaining Available for 
  Future Issuance Under 
  Equity Compensation 
  Plans (Excluding 
  Securities Reflected in 
  Column (a)) 
        
    (a) 
      
    (b) 
      
    (c) 
      Equity compensation plans approved by security holders 
    3,757,947 
      
    $46.81 
      
    5,695,743 
      Equity compensation plans not approved by security holders 

Total 
    3,757,947 

5,695,743 

ITEM 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the headings 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Director Independence and Other Board Matters', 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Related Person Transaction Approval Policy', and 'Corporate Governance and Director Compensation Transactions with Related Persons' in the Proxy Statement. 
   
           ITEM 14. 
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES 
     Incorporated herein by reference is the information appearing under the heading 'Audit and Related Matters Audit and Related Fees' and 'Audit and Related Matters Pre-Approval of Services' in the Proxy Statement. 
  
   61 

Table of Contents  

PART IV 

ITEM 15. 
    EXHIBITS AND FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES 
                    a) 
    1. Financial Statements: 

Consolidated Balance Sheets as of December 31,   2016   and   2015    
  Consolidated Statements of Earnings for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014    
  Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014    
  Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014    
  Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows for the years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014    
  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  2. Financial Statement Schedules: 
  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
  3. Exhibits: 
                 3.1 
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal Company, as amended (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012) 
      3.2 
    Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.2 to Fastenal Company's Form 8-K dated as of October 15, 2010 (file no. 000-16125)) 
      4.1 
    Form of Senior Notes due July 20, 2021 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 to Fastenal Company s Form 8 K dated as of July 20, 2016) 
      4.2 
    Form of Senior Notes due July 20, 2022 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.2 to Fastenal Company s Form 8 K dated as of July 20, 2016) 
      10.1 
    Description of Bonus Arrangements for Executive Officers (incorporated by reference to the information appearing under the heading 'Executive Compensation   Compensation Discussion and Analysis' in the Proxy Statement)* 
      10.2 
    Fastenal Company Stock Option Plan as amended and restated effective as of December 12, 2014 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 8-K dated December 17, 2014)* 
      10.3 
    Fastenal Company Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Appendix A to Fastenal Company's Proxy Statement dated February 23, 2012)* 
      10.4 
    Credit Agreement dated as of May 1, 2015 among Fastenal Company, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Swingline Lender and Issuing Lender (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 8-K dated May 5, 2015), as amended by the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of November 23, 2015 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Fastenal Company's Form 8-K dated November 25, 2015) 
      10.5 
    Master Note Agreement dated as of July 20, 2016 by and among (i) Fastenal Company, (ii) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, NYL Investors LLC and PGIM, Inc. (formerly known as Prudential Investment Management, Inc.), as investor group representatives (each, an 'Investor Group Representative'), and (iii) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (in its capacity as a purchaser of notes under such Master Note Agreement) and/or affiliates of any Investor Group Representative who become purchasers of notes under such Master Note Agreement (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 to Fastenal Company s Form 8 K dated as of July 20, 2016) 
      13 
    Portions of 2016 Annual Report to Shareholders not included in this Form 10-K (only those sections specifically incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K shall be deemed filed with the SEC) 
      21 
    List of Subsidiaries 
      23 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
      31 
    Certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
      32 
    Certification under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
      101 
    The following financial statements from Fastenal Company's Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2016, filed on February 6, 2017, formatted in XBRL (Extensible Business Reporting Language): (i) the Consolidated Balance Sheets, (ii) the Consolidated Statements of Earnings, (iii) the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income, (iv) the Consolidated Statements of Stockholders' Equity, (v) the Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows, and (vi) the Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 

We will furnish copies of these Exhibits upon request and payment of our reasonable expenses in furnishing the Exhibits. 
  * Management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement required to be filed as an exhibit to this Form 10-K pursuant to Item 15(b). 
  
   62 

Table of Contents  

Not applicable. 
  
   63 

Table of Contents  

FASTENAL COMPANY 
  Schedule II Valuation and Qualifying Accounts 
  Years ended December 31,   2016  ,   2015  , and   2014    
  (Amounts in thousands) 

(1)    Includes costs and expenses incurred for premiums and claims related to health and general insurance. 
   (2)    Includes costs and expenses paid for premiums and claims related to health and general insurance. 
  See accompanying Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm incorporated herein by reference. 
  
   64 

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized. 
    
                   Date: 
      
    February 6, 2017 
        
      FASTENAL COMPANY 

By 
      
    /s/    Daniel L. Florness 

Daniel L. Florness, President and Chief Executive Officer 

Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the date indicated. 

/s/    Daniel L. Florness 

/s/    Holden Lewis 
      Daniel L. Florness, President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer), and Director 

Holden Lewis, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial Officer) 

/s/    Sheryl A. Lisowski 

Sheryl A. Lisowski, Controller, Chief Accounting Officer, and Treasurer (Principal Accounting Officer) 

/s/    Willard D. Oberton 

/s/    Darren R. Jackson 
      Willard D. Oberton, Director (Chairman) 

Darren R. Jackson, Director 

/s/    Michael J. Ancius 

/s/    Daniel L. Johnson 
      Michael J. Ancius, Director 

Daniel L. Johnson, Director 

/s/    Michael J. Dolan 

/s/    Scott A. Satterlee 
      Michael J. Dolan, Director 

Scott A. Satterlee, Director 

/s/    Stephen L. Eastman 

/s/    Reyne K. Wisecup 
      Stephen L. Eastman, Director 

Reyne K. Wisecup, Director 

/s/    Rita J. Heise 

Rita J. Heise, Director 

65 

Table of Contents  

INDEX TO EXHIBITS 
    
                   3.1 
    Restated Articles of Incorporation of Fastenal Company, as amended 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      3.2 
    Restated By-Laws of Fastenal Company 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      4.1 
    Form of Senior Notes due July 20, 2021 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      4.2 
    Form of Senior Notes due July 20, 2022 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.1 
    Description of Bonus Arrangements for Executive Officers 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.2 
    Fastenal Company Stock Option Plan as amended and restated effective as of December 12, 2014 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.3 
    Fastenal Company Incentive Plan 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.4 
    Credit Agreement dated as of May 1, 2015 among Fastenal Company, the Lenders from time to time party thereto, and Wells Fargo Bank, National Association, as Administrative Agent, Swingline Lender and Issuing Lender, as amended by the First Amendment to Credit Agreement dated as of November 23, 2015 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      10.5 
    Master Note Agreement dated as of July 20, 2016 by and among (i) Fastenal Company, (ii) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company, NYL Investors LLC and PGIM, Inc. (formerly known as Prudential Investment Management, Inc.), as investor group representatives (each, an 'Investor Group Representative'), and (iii) Metropolitan Life Insurance Company (in its capacity as a purchaser of notes under such Master Note Agreement) and/or affiliates of any Investor Group Representative who become purchasers of notes under such Master Note Agreement 
    Incorporated by Reference 
      13 
    Portions of 2016 Annual Report to Shareholders not included in this Form 10-K (only those sections specifically incorporated by reference in this Form 10-K shall be deemed filed with the SEC) 
    Electronically Filed 
      21 
    List of Subsidiaries 
    Electronically Filed 
      23 
    Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    Electronically Filed 
      31 
    Certifications under Section 302 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    Electronically Filed 
      32 
    Certification under Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.INS 
    XBRL Instance Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.SCH 
    XBRL Taxonomy Extension Schema Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.CAL 
    XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.DEF 
    XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.LAB 
    XBRL Taxonomy Label Linkbase Document 
    Electronically Filed 
      EX 101.PRE 
    XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document 
    Electronically Filed 

66 

<EX-13>
 2
 final2016annualreportweb.htm
 PORTIONS OF 2016 ANNUAL REPORT TO SHAREHOLDERS NOT INCLUDED IN THIS FORM 10-K

final2016annualreportweb  

2016   Annual   Report   2016   ANNUAL    REPO   RT     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   $4.0 BILLIO   N   NET SALE   S   NET EARNING   S   $499 MILLIO   N   TABLE OF CONTENTS   1-3 Letter to Shareholders   4-5 10-Year Selected Financial    Data   Financial Highlights   6 Stock and Financial Data   NO. OF FASTENAL SCHOOL OF   BUSINESS COURSE COMPLETIONS   416,054   STORES   2,503   INVENTORY VALUE   $993 MILLION   NO. OF ORDERS PROCESSED   36,954,377   19,624   EMPLOYEES   134,000+   EMPLOYEE SAFETY   COACHING, TRAINING,     INSPECTION EVENTS   GLANCE   FASTENAL   AT A   143 MILLIONMILES DELIVERED 810DELIVEREDMILLION POUNDS   38,000+   BIN STOCKS   ACTIVEONSITE   401   ONSITE   LOCATIONS   62,000   +   VENDING MACHINES INSTALLED   DAILY SALES   GROWTH TO    CUSTOMERS   WITH VENDING   3.1%   CO   UN   TR   IES    W IT   H FASTENAL STORES21   7 Stock Performance Highlights   8-12 50 years of Growth through    Customer Service   INSIDE   BACK   COVER   Directors   Executive Officers   Corporate Information     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   1   LETTER TO   SHAREHOLDERS   One year ago I was in a new role   CEO of Fastenal. After 20 years   with Fastenal, I thought I knew the organization well. I knew we had   great people; I just didn t realize how great. Blue Team members   are willing to change, to grow, and to learn on both an individual   basis and as a team. With this spirit, anything is possible.   In last year s letter, we spoke about the results of the year, our   growth drivers, and our structural advantages. This letter is similar   in content; however, our aspirations for 2017 are much simpler     we plan to grow our sales and our earnings.   To make this a reality, we plan to serve our customers well and to   help them improve their business. We have a name for this: Growth   Through Customer Service. We also plan to serve our employees   well, reflecting our core belief in people and a willingness to   challenge each other. Finally, we plan to better manage expenses.   Doing these three things will also serve you, our shareholders.   In 2016, our net sales grew 2.4%. The best way to understand   what happened in 2016 is to revisit some trends mentioned in   last year s letter to shareholders. To summarize, 2015 was a   disappointing year. The growth rate of our business weakened   as the year progressed. Our net sales in the first quarter grew   about 9%, then slid to 5% growth in the second quarter, and in   September our daily sales growth went negative. We finished the   year with four negative months.   Our top 100 customers also experienced weakening trends in   2015. We are a significant supplier to each of these customers;   therefore, we feel our sales activity with this group is a good    proxy  for their overall business activities. From the first quarter   of 2015 to the fourth, the number of top 100 customers with   growth in spend dropped about a third, from 75 to 49. For the 51   customers whose spend contracted with Fastenal, 37 were down   more than 10% and 21 were down more than 25%. These two   groups were about two and a half times greater in size than we   would normally expect. With these customers, our market share   continues to expand; however, the market place in which they   operate has contracted.   The weakness within our top 100 customers continued in   2016. With some variations, depending on the quarter, about 50   customers grew and about 50 contracted. The severity of the drop   with our contracting customers was only slightly better than in   2015, with about 30 customers contracting more than 10% and   about 12 customers contracting more than 25%. Both of these   were about two times the norm. In short, 2015 and 2016 were   tough years for our customers, and our success directly relates to   our customers  success.   Understanding this customer information is important to   maintaining perspective during a weakening period like 2015 and   2016. It also serves as a reminder to everyone within Fastenal of   our mission to our customers. When they re struggling, we need   to focus our energy on providing even more ideas for savings and   improvements.   There is another positive to never lose sight of: The market we serve   is large, and we currently serve about 4%. A short-term weakness   in the economy has no relevance to our market opportunity or the   steps needed to grow our business long term.   As stated above, our net sales grew 2.4% in 2016; however, our   pre-tax earnings contracted 4.4%, our net earnings contracted   3.3%, and our net earnings per share (EPS) contracted 2.3%. The   latter number was helped by our repurchase of shares in 2015 and   in early 2016.   In 2016, our gross margin was 49.6%, our first annual gross margin   below 50% in ten years. This wasn t unexpected, but it was still   a tough pill to swallow. It wasn t unexpected because fasteners,   our highest-margin product line, now represent about 37% of our   revenue versus 52% in 2006. Fastener sales have been dropping   as a percentage of our total revenues for about 20 years, primarily   because of our success selling additional non-fastener products   to existing customers. Our industrial vending and Onsite initiatives   have accelerated this trend in recent years. Ignoring product mix,   our gross margins also weakened due to several additional factors:   (1) some deflation in steel and/or in energy prices over time, (2)   a weak macro environment for our customers, and (3) some   disruption in the marketplace. The latter is difficult to quantify, but   we believe the disruption will benefit Fastenal in the long term due   to our structural advantage (more on this later).   In 2016, our operating expenses grew just over 4%. During all of   2015, we aggressively added capacity to the organization. This   capacity consisted of about 1,700 additional store employees, about   700 additional vehicles, about 9,000 additional industrial vending   devices, and an additional layer of deployed IT infrastructure. In   2016, we dedicated around 200 non-store personnel to optimize   our industrial vending business, we upgraded around 2,000 store   locations, and deployed about 22,000 more vending devices.   These investments dictated much of our expense patterns for the   year.   As CEO, I am proud of many things we did in 2016. We managed   our expenses in a compassionate and mainly disciplined manner,   and we pulled back on the accelerator as needed.   To make this a reality, we plan to   serve our customers well and to help   them improve their business.    We have a name for this:    Growth Through Customer Service     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   2   As CEO, I am also learning, and there was one expense where we   underperformed: We did not manage our store occupancy expense   well. We will work to improve this in 2017 and 2018. Given the   previous discussion about gross margins, managing our operating   expenses will become more important over time.   Our growth drivers haven t changed from twelve months ago. They   include the following:   National Accounts    This is really our company-wide key account program. National   account customers represent about 47% of our revenue, and this   moves closer to 60% if we expand the definition to include large   regional customers and government customers.   Today, about a quarter of this business is served by an Onsite team   or some other customer-specific location. We believe our global   capabilities provide a compelling advantage in the marketplace.   We believe this advantage allows Fastenal to push further and   faster with these customers, forcing our competitors to play catch-   up. We simply have to exceed our customers  expectations every   day   not easy, but achievable.   Onsite Locations   An Onsite location is a  store  within a customer s facility, or   sometimes in a lower-cost facility near the customer. At the end   of 2014, we had just over 200 active Onsite locations. During   2015 we signed 80, and in 2016 we signed 176. Our success has   grown because our engagement, or participation, has grown. In   2015, about 25% of our district business units signed an Onsite   customer; in 2016, this doubled to just over 50%. Our goal in 2017   is to have 80% of our districts sign at least one Onsite customer.   If achieved, we believe this could result in 275 to 300 signings. It   might be questionable for us to publish this ambitious of a goal, but   that is the DNA of Fastenal   see the potential and challenge your   people to achieve that potential.   Industrial Vending   We started 2016 with about 55,500 vending devices installed at   customer sites and ended the year with about 62,800. The net   increase of 7,300 (or 13%) probably doesn t sound like a big deal;   however, we  tuned up  the business and removed around 9,300   underperforming devices. We think this was a good decision. It   improved the efficiency of the business, improved the financial   returns of the business, and positioned us to serve our customers   at a higher level   we like all three outcomes. As with Onsite, we   believe there is a significant growth opportunity remaining in the   industrial vending marketplace.   (For those of you possibly confused by the 7,300 vending machines   noted above versus the 22,000 devices discussed earlier in this   letter, the difference is about 15,000 devices deployed under a   locker leasing program during the year. We exclude these devices   from most of our disclosures as they don t generate product sales,   but rather rental fees.)   Store Locations   Let s talk about one of our basic growth drivers. Starting in late   2015, we invested heavily to upgrade about 2,000 stores through   our CSP 16 (Customer Service Project 2016) initiative. It involved   an infusion of about $54 million worth of inventory and a lot of hard   work at the local store level. We did this to improve our same-day   service capabilities and to allow our local teams to expand the   breadth of customers within their sales plans. A specific area of   The Customer Service Project really   involves a continuously evolving   inventory staging strategy, wisely   using the best available  shelf  to   optimize our service.     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   3   DANIEL L. FLORNESS   President and Chief Executive Officer   focus was the construction industry, positioning our stores to   provide same-day solutions for local contractors with a broader,   deeper inventory of tools, anchors, safety supplies, and other job   site needs. The higher-level goal was to improve the efficiency of   our existing distribution network. The Customer Service Project   really involves a continuously evolving inventory staging strategy,   wisely using the best available  shelf  to optimize our service. This   could be in our customer s location, a vending machine, an Onsite   location, a store, a distribution center, or at one of our suppliers     all linked by one integrated network. Our in-house transportation   fleet connects the network. Our local presence extends it to   the  last mile.    In 2017, we intend to use these four drivers to improve sales   growth and efficiencies. We also intend to focus our attention   on asset utilization, both working capital and fixed capital. After   five years of rapidly expanding our industrial vending business,   our distribution automation, and our trucking fleet, capped by an   ambitious upgrade to our store network in 2016, we have some   breathing room to improve our asset utilization and improve our   free cash flow.   Earlier we spoke about two distinct items: expense control and our   structural advantages. Let s take a deeper dive.   In regards to expense control, two things jump out. The first   centers on occupancy. There are four primary components to our   occupancy expenses: store related (x-utilities), distribution and   manufacturing related, vending devices, and store utilities. We   didn t do a great job managing the first one in 2016, and as noted   earlier, we will need to dig out of that hole in 2017 and 2018.   The second item centers on store employee costs. The Department   of Labor regulation changes published last spring were dramatic   and changed the economics and flexiblity of our smaller revenue   stores. We are a successful organization because we foster an   entrepreneurial environment. We felt these changes would stifle   the entrepreneurial environment for our employees and would   limit our ability to teach through success; therefore, we closed   110 stores during the second half of the year. This wasn t the only   reason some of these locations closed, but it caused us to move   quickly and it did expand the list.   An important detail to note: We retained 95% of the customers and   employees after the store closings. We now serve these customers   out of nearby locations with the same employees.   We have discussed our structural advantage in previous   communications. The advantage includes great people close to the   customer and a frugal culture. This allows us to deliver superior   service, to provide  same-day  product availability, and to maintain   a very efficient cost structure. This combination allows Fastenal to   generate a profit and a return on investment where others struggle.   It also creates avenues of opportunity in the future.   My letter has touched on people from the standpoint of culture,   but I left out one important detail: We believe in people and their   inherent ability to do great things if given the opportunity. We   also believe our odds improve if we challenge ourselves to   pursue a common goal. We intend to always give that opportunity   and to always pursue a common goal.   In 2017, our common goal is simple   grow our sales and   grow our earnings. To accomplish this, we must be focused   on our customers, on our Blue Team, and on our operating and   administrative expenses.   This year marks Fastenal s 50th anniversary, and I suspect we will   take several opportunities to celebrate that milestone during 2017;   but rest assured, our energy will be focused on the first steps of   our next 50 years.   We thank you for your belief in Fastenal.   Sincerely,   * Mansfield   , Ohio   Fastenal stor   e     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   4   Operating Results 2016 Percent Change 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   Net sales $ 3,962,036 2.4% $3,869,187 $3,733,507  $3,326,106  $3,133,577  $2,766,859  $2,269,471  $1,930,330  $2,340,425  $2,061,819   Gross profit $ 1,964,777 0.8% 1,948,934  1,897,402  1,719,445  1,614,524  1,434,172  1,174,836  983,435  1,236,092  1,047,574     % of net sales 49.6% 50.4% 50.8% 51.7% 51.5% 51.8% 51.8% 50.9% 52.8% 50.8%   Earnings before income taxes $ 789,729 -4.4% 826,020  787,434 713,468  674,155  575,081  430,640  297,490  451,167  377,899     % of net sales 19.9% 21.3% 21.1% 21.5% 21.5% 20.8% 19.0% 15.4% 19.3% 18.3%   Net earnings $ 499,478 -3.3% 516,361  494,150 448,636  420,536  357,929  265,356  184,357  279,705  232,622     % of net sales 12.6% 13.3% 13.2% 13.5% 13.4% 12.9% 11.7% 9.6% 12.0% 11.3%   Basic net earnings per share $ 1.73 -2.3% 1.77  1.67 1.51 1.42 1.21 0.90 0.62 0.94 0.77   Basic weighted average shares outstanding 288,950 -0.9% 291,453  296,490  296,754 296,089 295,054 294,861 296,716 297,662 301,109   Diluted net earnings per share $ 1.73 -2.3% 1.77  1.66 1.51 1.42 1.21 0.90 0.62 0.94 0.77   Diluted weighted average shares outstanding(1) 289,158 -1.0% 292,045  297,313 297,684 297,151 295,869 294,861 296,716 297,662 301,109   Dividends and Common    Stock Purchase Summary 2016   Percent   Change 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   Dividends paid $ 346,588 6.0% $327,101 $296,581  $237,456  $367,306  $191,741  $182,814  $106,943  $117,474  $66,216     % of net earnings 69.4% 63.3% 60.0% 52.9% 87.3% 53.6% 68.9% 58.0% 42.0% 28.5%   Dividends paid per share $ 1.20 7.1% 1.12  1.00 0.80 1.24 0.65 0.62 0.36 0.395 0.22   Purchases of common stock $ 59,440 -79.7% 292,951  52,942 9,080  -  -  - 41,104 25,958 87,311     % of net earnings 11.9% 56.7% 10.7% 2.0%  -  -  - 22.3% 9.3% 37.5%   Common stock shares purchased 1,600 -77.5% 7,100 1,200 200  -  -  - 2,200 1,180 4,172   Average price paid per share $ 37.15 -10.0% 41.26  44.12 45.40  -  -  - 18.69 22.00 20.93   Financial Position at Year End 2016 Percent Change 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   Operational working capital     (accounts receivable, net and inventories) $ 1,492,705 8.0% $1,381,638 $1,331,301  $1,198,399  $1,087,542  $984,746  $827,502  $722,574  $809,187  $740,923   Net working capital     (current assets less current liabilities) $ 1,445,126 11.9% 1,291,610 1,207,912 1,168,629  1,082,482  1,048,320  923,513  862,855  827,410  742,980   Fixed capital      (property and equipment, net) $ 899,697 9.9% 818,889  763,889 654,850  516,427  435,601  363,419  335,004  324,182  276,627   Total assets $ 2,668,884 5.4% 2,532,462  2,359,102 2,075,784  1,815,832  1,684,948  1,468,283  1,327,358  1,304,149  1,163,061   Total debt     (current portion of debt and long-term debt) $ 390,000 6.8% 365,000 90,000 - - - - - - -   Total stockholders  equity $ 1,933,094 7.3% 1,801,289  1,915,217 1,772,697  1,560,360  1,458,976  1,282,512  1,190,843  1,142,259  1,010,161   All information contained in this Annual Report reflects the 2-for-1 stock split in 2011.   (1) Reflects impact of stock options issued by the Company that were in-the-money and outstanding during the period.   (Amounts in Thousands Except Per Share Information)   10-YEAR SELECTED FINANCIAL   DA   TA   Cash Flow Summary 2016 Percent Change 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   Net cash provided by operating activities $ 513,999 -6.0% $546,940 $499,392 $416,120  $396,292  $268,489  $240,488  $306,070  $259,898  $227,895     % of net earnings 102.9% 105.9% 101.1% 92.8% 94.2% 75.0% 90.6% 166.0% 92.9% 98.0%   Less capital expenditures, net $ (182,946) 26.0% (145,227)  (183,655)  (201,550)  (133,882)  (116,489)  (69,138)  (47,675)  (86,923)  (49,830)   Acquisitions and other $ (5,147) -85.5% (35,400)  (5,577) (145) (133) 212  (10,329)  (5,133) (72) (265)   Free cash flow $ 325,906 -11.0% 366,313  310,160 214,425 262,277 152,212 161,021  253,262 172,903 177,800     % of net earnings 65.2% 70.9% 62.8% 47.8% 62.4% 42.5% 60.7% 137.4% 61.8% 76.4%     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   5   Operating Results 2016 Percent Change 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   Net sales $ 3,962,036 2.4% $3,869,187 $3,733,507  $3,326,106  $3,133,577  $2,766,859  $2,269,471  $1,930,330  $2,340,425  $2,061,819   Gross profit $ 1,964,777 0.8% 1,948,934  1,897,402  1,719,445  1,614,524  1,434,172  1,174,836  983,435  1,236,092  1,047,574     % of net sales 49.6% 50.4% 50.8% 51.7% 51.5% 51.8% 51.8% 50.9% 52.8% 50.8%   Earnings before income taxes $ 789,729 -4.4% 826,020  787,434 713,468  674,155  575,081  430,640  297,490  451,167  377,899     % of net sales 19.9% 21.3% 21.1% 21.5% 21.5% 20.8% 19.0% 15.4% 19.3% 18.3%   Net earnings $ 499,478 -3.3% 516,361  494,150 448,636  420,536  357,929  265,356  184,357  279,705  232,622     % of net sales 12.6% 13.3% 13.2% 13.5% 13.4% 12.9% 11.7% 9.6% 12.0% 11.3%   Basic net earnings per share $ 1.73 -2.3% 1.77  1.67 1.51 1.42 1.21 0.90 0.62 0.94 0.77   Basic weighted average shares outstanding 288,950 -0.9% 291,453  296,490  296,754 296,089 295,054 294,861 296,716 297,662 301,109   Diluted net earnings per share $ 1.73 -2.3% 1.77  1.66 1.51 1.42 1.21 0.90 0.62 0.94 0.77   Diluted weighted average shares outstanding(1) 289,158 -1.0% 292,045  297,313 297,684 297,151 295,869 294,861 296,716 297,662 301,109   Dividends and Common    Stock Purchase Summary 2016   Percent   Change 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   Dividends paid $ 346,588 6.0% $327,101 $296,581  $237,456  $367,306  $191,741  $182,814  $106,943  $117,474  $66,216     % of net earnings 69.4% 63.3% 60.0% 52.9% 87.3% 53.6% 68.9% 58.0% 42.0% 28.5%   Dividends paid per share $ 1.20 7.1% 1.12  1.00 0.80 1.24 0.65 0.62 0.36 0.395 0.22   Purchases of common stock $ 59,440 -79.7% 292,951  52,942 9,080  -  -  - 41,104 25,958 87,311     % of net earnings 11.9% 56.7% 10.7% 2.0%  -  -  - 22.3% 9.3% 37.5%   Common stock shares purchased 1,600 -77.5% 7,100 1,200 200  -  -  - 2,200 1,180 4,172   Average price paid per share $ 37.15 -10.0% 41.26  44.12 45.40  -  -  - 18.69 22.00 20.93   Financial Position at Year End 2016 Percent Change 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   Operational working capital     (accounts receivable, net and inventories) $ 1,492,705 8.0% $1,381,638 $1,331,301  $1,198,399  $1,087,542  $984,746  $827,502  $722,574  $809,187  $740,923   Net working capital     (current assets less current liabilities) $ 1,445,126 11.9% 1,291,610 1,207,912 1,168,629  1,082,482  1,048,320  923,513  862,855  827,410  742,980   Fixed capital      (property and equipment, net) $ 899,697 9.9% 818,889  763,889 654,850  516,427  435,601  363,419  335,004  324,182  276,627   Total assets $ 2,668,884 5.4% 2,532,462  2,359,102 2,075,784  1,815,832  1,684,948  1,468,283  1,327,358  1,304,149  1,163,061   Total debt     (current portion of debt and long-term debt) $ 390,000 6.8% 365,000 90,000 - - - - - - -   Total stockholders  equity $ 1,933,094 7.3% 1,801,289  1,915,217 1,772,697  1,560,360  1,458,976  1,282,512  1,190,843  1,142,259  1,010,161   All information contained in this Annual Report reflects the 2-for-1 stock split in 2011.   (1) Reflects impact of stock options issued by the Company that were in-the-money and outstanding during the period.   FINANCIAL HIGHLIGHTS   Cash Flow Summary 2016 Percent Change 2015 2014 2013 2012 2011 2010 2009 2008 2007   Net cash provided by operating activities $ 513,999 -6.0% $546,940 $499,392 $416,120  $396,292  $268,489  $240,488  $306,070  $259,898  $227,895     % of net earnings 102.9% 105.9% 101.1% 92.8% 94.2% 75.0% 90.6% 166.0% 92.9% 98.0%   Less capital expenditures, net $ (182,946) 26.0% (145,227)  (183,655)  (201,550)  (133,882)  (116,489)  (69,138)  (47,675)  (86,923)  (49,830)   Acquisitions and other $ (5,147) -85.5% (35,400)  (5,577) (145) (133) 212  (10,329)  (5,133) (72) (265)   Free cash flow $ 325,906 -11.0% 366,313  310,160 214,425 262,277 152,212 161,021  253,262 172,903 177,800     % of net earnings 65.2% 70.9% 62.8% 47.8% 62.4% 42.5% 60.7% 137.4% 61.8% 76.4%     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   6   2016 High Low 2015 High Low   First quarter $49.87 $36.53 First quarter $47.40 $39.82   Second quarter 48.93 42.70 Second quarter 43.41 40.01   Third quarter 45.36 39.92 Third quarter 42.82 36.13   Fourth quarter 49.17 38.16 Fourth quarter 41.64 35.50   As of January 20, 2017, there were approximately 1,100 record holders of our common stock, which includes nominees or broker   dealers holding stock on behalf of an estimated 205,000 beneficial owners.   In 2016 and 2015, we paid dividends per share totaling $1.20 and $1.12, respectively. On January 17, 2017, we announced   a quarterly dividend of $0.32 per share to be paid on February 28, 2017 to shareholders of record at the close of business on   February 1, 2017. Our board of directors intends to continue paying quarterly dividends, provided that any future determination as   to payment of dividends will depend upon the financial condition and results of operations of the company and such other factors   as are deemed relevant by the board of directors.   We purchased 1,600,000 shares of our common stock in 2016 at an average price of $37.15 per share. In 2015, we purchased   7,100,000 shares of our common stock at an average price of $41.26 per share.   Common Stock Data   Our shares are traded on The NASDAQ Stock Market under the symbol  FAST.  The following   table sets forth, by quarter, the high and low closing sale price of our shares on The NASDAQ   Stock Market for the last two years(1).   2015 Net  Sales   Gross    Profit    Pre-tax    Earnings   Net    Earnings   Basic    Net Earnings    per Share   Diluted    Net Earnings   per Share   First quarter 953,317 484,050 203,512 127,606 0.43 0.43   Second quarter  997,827 502,087 225,099 140,357 0.48 0.48   Third quarter  995,250 502,225 219,204 136,494 0.47 0.47   Fourth quarter  922,793 460,572 178,205 111,904 0.39 0.39   Total 3,869,187 1,948,934 826,020 516,361 1.77 1.77   2016 Net  Sales   Gross    Profit    Pre-tax    Earnings   Net    Earnings   Basic    Net Earnings    per Share (1)   Diluted    Net Earnings   per Share   First quarter 986,680 491,460 199,851 126,227 0.44 0.44   Second quarter 1,014,287 501,592 207,817 131,521 0.46 0.45   Third quarter 1,013,122 499,834 201,239 126,925 0.44 0.44   Fourth quarter 947,947 471,891 180,822 114,805 0.40 0.40   Total 3,962,036 1,964,777 789,729 499,478 1.73 1.73   (1) The closing sale price was obtained from Shareholder.com, a division of Nasdaq OMX.   STOCK   AND   FINANCIAL   DATA   SELECTED Q   UA   RTER   LY FINANCIAL   DA   TA (UN   AUDITED   )   (Dollar amounts in Thousands   Except Share and   Per Share Information)   (1)  Amounts may not foot due to rounding difference.   $   $   $   $     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   7   Invested $9,000 on August 20, 1987   Value on December 31, 2016: $4,510,080 STOCK PERFORMANCE   HIGHLIGHTS(1), (2)   (1)  The share data represents past performance, which is no guarantee of future results.   (2)  The dollar amounts above are presented in whole numbers versus thousands or   millions as is prevalent in the remainder of this document.   $1,000,000   $2,000,000   $3,000,000   $4,000,000   $5,000,000   198   7   198   9   199   1   199   3   199   5   199   7   199   9   200   1   200   3   200   5   200   7   200   9   201   1   201   3   201   5   201   7   Stock Split   INITIAL PUBLIC OFFERING (IPO)   On August 20, 1987 (date of our initial public offering), 1,000 shares   of our stock sold for $9,000. Approximately 29 years later, on   December 31, 2016, those 1,000 shares, having split seven times,   were 96,000 shares worth $4,510,080, for a gain of approximately   23.9% compounded annually. (In addition, the holder of these shares   would have received $784,224 in dividends since August 20, 1987,   for a total gain of approximately 24.6% compounded annually.)   TEN YEARS   On December 31, 2006, 1,000 shares of our stock sold for $35,880. Ten   years later, on December 31, 2016, those 1,000 shares, having split   once, were 2,000 shares worth $93,960, for a gain of approximately   10.1% compounded annually. (In addition, the holder of these shares   would have received $15,210 in dividends since December 2006, for   a total gain of approximately 11.8% compounded annually.)   FIVE YEARS   On December 31, 2011, 1,000 shares of our stock sold for $43,610.   Five years later, on December 31, 2016, those 1,000 shares were   worth $46,980 for a gain of approximately approximately 1.5%   compounded annually. (In addition, the holder of these shares would   have received $5,360 in dividends since December 2011, for a total   gain of approximately 3.7% compounded annually.)   HISTORICAL STOCK PERFORMANC   E   RETURNS   TO    SHAREHOLDER   S We have paid dividends in every year since 1991.   Since going public in 1987, we have maintained a consistent   focus on avoiding, if feasible, the potentially dilutive impact of our   activities on our shareholders. To this end, we have grown our   organization principally with internal cash flow, have supported   the Fastenal Company and Subsidiaries 401(k) and Employee   Stock Ownership Plan with stock purchased in the open market,   and, since creating a stock option program in 2003, have   periodically purchased common stock in the open market to,   among other things, offset the potential impact of our stock option   grants. We have purchased approximately 20.0 million shares   since 2003, and, have granted our employees options to purchase   approximately 12.6 million shares. (Note: These amounts have   been adjusted to reflect the impact of stock splits.) This philosophy   has allowed us to balance internal investment with cash returns to   shareholders. In the last five years, we have spent $847 million in   net capital expenditures and returned $1,989 million to investors   through dividends and share purchases, all while maintaining a   conservative balance sheet.     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   8   While working in his dad s auto   supply shop in Winona, Minnesota,   11-year-old Bob Kierlin observed   that the fasteners they sold were   all pre-packaged in boxes that   happened to be about the same size   as a pack of cigarettes. This got him   thinking: If packs of cigarettes can be   vended, why not boxes of fasteners?   The question stuck with him   through the years, ultimately   inspiring Fastenal s original   business plan.   After being turned down by at least 30 potential investors,   Kierlin fi nally convinced four friends   Van McConnon, Jack   Remick, Steve Slaggie and, later, Mike Gostomski   to help   get his business idea off the ground. The vision was to create   a completely self-service fastener store in Winona lined with   vending machines capable of dispensing small boxes of nuts,   bolts, and screws.   The company s early survival hinged on two imperatives: waste nothing and buy as much   bulk inventory as possible. Before long, kegs of fasteners fi lled the store, the basement, and   various garages around town, at which point it occurred to Bob and the gang that they could   grow a lot faster if they spread all that product out to other markets. The fi rst store outside of   Winona was Rochester, MN (1971), followed by La Crosse, WI (1974), Dubuque, IA (1975), Eau   Claire, WI (1976), and Mankato, MN (1977).   Bob s laser focus on cost control fostered a culture of   extreme frugality. Fastener kegs were repurposed as   offi ce chairs. Customer orders were packed in surplus   toothpaste boxes (purchased for three cents each). And   the thermostat at headquarters was set to a refreshing   55 degrees in the dead of winter. This no-frills approach   enabled the team to pour every penny into growing   the business.   IT ALL STARTED HERE   ROLL OUT THE BARRELS   A PENNY SAVED   WITH A LITTLE HELP   FROM MY FRIENDS   OUR FIRST   CELEBR   ATIN   G   GROWTH THROUGH   50 YEARS OF   Rochester, MN   Top Row (L-R) Bob Kierlin, Van McConnon, Jack Remick   Bottom Row (L-R) Steve Slaggie, Mike Gostomski   Van McConnon and Jack Remick in the original   (Winona, MN) store   La Crosse, WI     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   9   Bob envisioned that there would one day be hundreds of   machines set up across the country, all serviced by a fl eet   of gleaming semis bearing the company s name:  Lightning   Bolts,  with a streak of lightning underlining the letters.   This   vision quickly evaporated when Steve and Jack threatened   to withdraw their money unless they came up with a better   name. After much head-scratching and debate, they fi nally   settled on  Fastenal  because they fi gured people would use   their products to  fasten all  kinds of things.   In 1967,  they rented a space for the test store,   ordered 1,400 bags of fasteners to go into the yet-   to-be-built prototype machines, held a grand opening   to generate some cash   and promptly discovered   that customers wanted fastener sizes and quantities   that couldn t possibly be vended. According to Van   McConnon, Bob seemed unfazed by the revelation:    He just said,  Well, Van, why don t you just start   making sales calls and sell some nuts and bolts?     With that, the vending concept was tabled and   Fastenal s store-based, outside-sales-driven business   model was born.   With the launch of additional stores, the Winona location took on the role of   a (primitive) distribution center. John Newell, the assistant manager, would   fi eld phone calls from the other stores, jot down their product requests on   pieces of scrap paper, and stick them on a screw that had been drilled   through a two-by-four. Once a week, the Winona team would sift through   the impaled notes and pull all the orders. Store personnel would have to   drive to Winona to pick up their products, often letting themselves into the   store at night or over the weekend to fi nd their designated  pile.       It wasn t until 1975 that stores began receiving sporadic truck deliveries   from Winona (via a salvaged half-ton fl atbed truck known as  the White   Knight ). In 1981 we hired our fi rst full-time truck driver, Bob Wittenberg;   and within a few years, the rough contours of Fastenal s distribution system   began to take shape, with a growing fl eet of trucks running increasingly   frequent routes to surrounding stores.   WHY  FASTENAL ?   The  Blue Team  may very well   have ended up as the  Yellow   Team  or even the  Red Team    if it weren t for an industrial   design textbook called Human   Engineering. This is where Bob   originally learned that blue on   white is the most legible and   impactful color combination   for text.    AND WHY   SO BLUE?   A STORE IS BORN   WHEELS OF PROGRESS   CUSTOMER SERVICE   (Above) Fastenal s fi rst semi drivers: Steve   Thicke, Rick Todd, and Bob Wittenberg   (Far left) Our fi rst truck after  the White   Knight  was a 135-horsepower Mercedes   capable of achieving speeds as high as 57   m.p.h.!   (Left) Steve Thicke, looking relieved that we   eventually moved on to bigger and better   trucks     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   10   For our fi rst 20 years, Winona was home   to Fastenal s lone distribution center.   That changed in 1987 when a second   warehouse was opened in Indianapolis   with one driver and one guy running   the warehouse (the forebears of our    I-Hub  master DC). For our next hub   opening, we traveled all the way to   Scranton, Pennsylvania, then to Dallas,   Atlanta, and eventually all over the   country (and beyond), gradually shifting   from a Winona-centric model to a truly   regionalized system.  It was all geared   toward taking care of the customer as   quickly as possible,  said Bob Kierlin.    That s really the goal of   everything we do with our   distribution network.    Everyone who uses a fastener needs to apply it with   some kind of tool.   This simple truism spurred   Fastenal s foray into non-fastener product lines   starting in the early 1990s. At fi rst, tools and other   MRO supplies were sold in separate  FastTool    stores located adjacent to existing Fastenal   locations, but within a few years everything was   combined in our regular Fastenal stores. The tool   expansion essentially doubled our sales opportunity   in each market, in turn making it feasible to open   stores in towns half the size. Following the same   logic, each subsequent product line rollout brought   us closer to our customers.   MORE THAN JUST   NUTS   BOLTS   MEANWHILE, BACK   AT THE WAREHOUSE   OUR FIRST   CELEBR   ATIN   G   GROWTH THROUGH   50 YEARS OF   When Fastenal s headquarters were relocated to a larger building   in 1982, two small rooms were set aside to accommodate a   vertical mill, a lathe, a horizontal grinding machine, a cut-off   machine, and a de-burring machine   all operated by a single   machinist. This added a critical dimension to our service,   enabling sales people to respond to customer demands for   hard-to-fi nd parts with two winning questions: How many do   you need? And when do you need them?   DO-IT-YOURSELF MANUFACTURING   Fastenal really began to   hit its stride in the early   1980s. The strategy was   pretty basic: place products and people close to the customer and   empower everyone in the organization to make decisions, take   risks, and share the success of their company. As Bob Kierlin later   refl ected,  Our growth was really driven by our belief in people and   what they could do if given an opportunity.    THE POWER   OF FASTENAL   PEOPLE   Steve Jacobson and Jeff   Klint at Fastenal s second   Twin Cities location   I-Hub (Indianapolis, IN), early 1990s     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   11   Fastenal faced some growing   pains heading into the mid-1980s.   A cash crunch was making it   diffi cult to grow the company at full throttle. Meanwhile, the founders were   struggling to fi nd a way to give employees an ownership stake in the business they   were all working so hard to build. With this as backdrop, in 1987 the decision was   made to take the company public. It was a modest IPO (one million shares sold for $9   per share), but it set the stage for remarkable growth. Fastenal s sales soared from   roughly $20 million in 1987 to around $400 million in 1997; and our store count, which   stood at just over 50 at the time of the IPO, surpassed 800 by the end of the 1990s.   GOING PUBLIC   CUSTOMER SERVICE   The evolution of Fastenal s business can be described as a journey deeper and deeper into   the service of our customers. In the 1980s we set up our fi rst jobsite trailers, providing a   mobile  store  in the middle of a construction site. In 1992, we added a new twist by opening   our fi rst store within a customer facility. This was a purely practical decision. The customer   needed more inventory than we could fi t in our local store in Manitowoc, WI, so they invited   us to move in   a fortuitous beginning to our Onsite service model.   MOVING CLOSER TO OUR CUSTOMERS   AND EXPANDING   OUR HORIZONS   Our journey of service eventually led our teams beyond   the U.S. borders. In 1994, we opened our fi rst store in   Canada, planting a seed that within 20 years would   grow into a quarter-billion-dollar business with 1,200-   plus employees. In 2001, we started doing business in   Mexico. That same year we opened up in Singapore, our   fi rst Asia Pacifi c sales location. And we ve since opened   sales locations all over the world, providing local service   to our customers as they globalized their operations.      

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   12   OUR FIRST   CELEBR   ATIN   G   GROWTH THROUGH   CUSTOMER SERVICE   50 YEARS OF   Nearly forty years after starting the business, we fi nally realized Bob Kierlin s   dream of dispensing industrial supplies out of vending machines. It took a while   for our vending program to gain traction when it fi rst rolled out in late 2008, but   as stores began to embrace the value of vending (as a customer solution and   a growth driver), the number of Fastenal machines installed at customer sites   skyrocketed   from just over 7,000 at the close of 2011, to nearly 63,000 by the   close of 2016.   Most analysts agree that the current North American market potential   for Fastenal is at least $100 billion, and many would say it s closer to   $150 billion. Our current sales represent around four percent of that   market   i.e., for every four dollars we have today, there are 96 dollars   potentially to be gained. In short, as far as we ve come during our fi rst   50 years, our journey is likely just beginning.   CELEBRATING OUR FIRST 50 YEARS.   FOCUSED ON OUR NEXT 50 YEARS.   COMING FULL CIRCLE   THE NEXT CHAPTER   By 2001, Fastenal had 1,000-plus stores spanning all 50 states, but most   of them were better suited for outside sales than walk-in business. A   dramatic transformation began in 2002 with the launch of the Customer   Service Project, better known as CSP. It involved relocating stores to   more prominent locations, shifting inventory from the hubs to the stores,   creating store front rooms with open fl oor plans and retail fi xtures, and   streamlining systems to speed up invoicing. It all added up to faster   service and a much more inviting customer experience.   AN EXTREME STORE MAKEOVER   FSB IS IN SESSION   Opening hundreds of new stores meant developing thousands of employees   to run them.   Enter the  Devos  (aka the Development Team), a group of   seasoned store managers tasked with traveling the country to train new   team members in store back rooms, distribution centers, and other makeshift   classrooms. In the late  90s we took our training efforts to the next level by   developing a full-fl edged corporate university, the Fastenal School of Business   (FSB). Launched in 1999 with just two classes, FSB later merged with the Devos   to provide an ever-expanding offering of courses via regional campuses and, in   recent years, a robust virtual campus.   Sioux Falls, South Dakota Fastenal store     

2016 ANNUAL REPORT   JAMES C. JANSEN   Executive Vice President - Manufacturing   HOLDEN LEWIS   Executive Vice President and   Chief Financial Officer   LELAND J. HEIN   Senior Executive Vice President - Sales   SHERYL A. LISOWSKI   Controller, Chief Accounting Officer,    and Treasurer   DANIEL L. FLORNESS   President and Chief Executive Officer   WILLIAM J. DRAZKOWSKI   Executive Vice President -    National Accounts Sales   EXECUTIVE OFFICER   S   ANNUAL   MEETING   The annual meeting of shareholders   will be held at 10:00 a.m., central   time, April 25, 2017, at our home   office located at 2001 Theurer   Boulevard, Winona, Minnesota.   HOME   OFFICE   Fastenal Company   2001 Theurer Boulevard   Winona, Minnesota 55987-0978   Phone:  (507) 454-5374   Fax:  (507) 453-8049   LEGAL   COUNSEL   INDEPENDENT   REGISTERED PUBLIC   ACCOUNTING FIRM   Faegre Baker Daniels LLP   Minneapolis, Minnesota   KPMG LLP   Minneapolis, Minnesota   FORM   10-K   TRANSFER   AGENT   A copy of our 2016 Annual Report   on Form 10-K to the Securities and   Exchange Commission is available   without charge to shareholders   upon written request to internal   audit at the address of our home   office listed on this page.   Copies of our latest press releases,   unaudited supplemental company   information, and monthly sales   information are available at:   http://investor.fastenal.com.   Wells Fargo Bank, N.A.   Minneapolis, Minnesota   CORPOR   ATE INFORM   ATIO   N   MICHAEL J. DOLAN   Self-Employed Business Consultant,   Retired Executive Vice President and    Chief Operating Officer,    The Smead Manufacturing Company   SCOTT A. SATTERLEE   Retired President of North America   Surface Transportation Division, C.H.   Robinson Worldwide, Inc.   RITA J. HEISE   Self-Employed Business Consultant,   Retired Corporate Vice President and   Chief Information Officer of    Cargill, Incorporated   STEPHEN L. EASTMAN   President of the Parts, Garments,    and Accessories Division of    Polaris Industries Inc.   (recreational vehicle manufacturer)   DANIEL L. JOHNSON   President and Chief Executive Officer of   M.A. Mortenson Company (family owned   construction company)   REYNE K. WISECUP   DARREN R. JACKSON   Retired Chief Executive Officer,    Advance Auto Parts, Inc.   WILLARD D. OBERTON   Chairman of the Board, Retired President   and Chief Executive Officer,    Fastenal Company   MICHAEL J. ANCIUS   Director of Strategic Planning, Financing,    and Taxation, Kwik Trip, Inc.    (retail convenience store operator)DIRECTOR   S   DANIEL L. FLORNESS   NICHOLAS J. LUNDQUIST   Senior Executive Vice President -   Operations   GARY A. POLIPNICK   Executive Vice President -    FAST Solutions    REYNE K. WISECUP   Senior Executive Vice President -    Human Resources   JEFFERY M. WATTS   Executive Vice President -    International Sales   TERRY M. OWEN   Senior Executive Vice President -    Sales Operations   JOHN L. SODERBERG   Executive Vice President -    Information Technology   CHARLES S. MILLER   Executive Vice President - Sales     

2016   ANNUAL    REPO   RT   9705201 2016 Annual Report  |  01.17 KS  |  Printed in the USA     

</EX-13>

<EX-21>
 3
 fast1231201610-kexhibit21.htm
 LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21 
  Subsidiaries of Fastenal Company 
                       Geographic Location 
    Subsidiary Name 
    Doing Business as 
    Year Incorporated 
    Jurisdiction of Incorporation 
      North America 

United States 
    Fastenal International Holdings Company 
    Same 
    1994 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal Company Purchasing 
    Same 
    1997 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal Company Leasing 
    Same 
    1997 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal IP Company 
    Same 
    2005 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal Air Fleet, LLC 
    Same 
    2006 
    Minnesota 
        
    River Surplus and Supply, LLC 
    Same 
    2014 
    Minnesota 
        
    Fastenal Mexico, LLC 
    Same 
    2016 
    Minnesota 
      Canada 
    Fastenal Canada, Ltd. 
    Same 
    2008 
    Canada 
      Mexico 
    Fastenal Mexico Services S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Same 
    1999 
    Mexico 
        
    Fastenal Mexico S. de R.L. de C.V. 
    Same 
    1999 
    Mexico 
      Central   South America 

Panama 
    Fastenal Panama S.A. 
    Same 
    2009 
    Panama 
        
    Fastenal Latin America, S.A. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Panama 
      Brazil 
    Fastenal Brasil Importa  o, Exporta  o e Distribui  o Ltda. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Brazil 
        
    Fastenal Brasil Participacoes Ltda. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Brazil 
      Colombia 
    Fastenal Colombia S.A.S. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Colombia 
      Chile 
    Fastenal Chile SpA 
    Same 
    2013 
    Chile 
      Asia 

China 
    Fastenal Asia Pacific Limited 
    Same 
    2003 
    Hong Kong, China 
        
    FASTCO (Shanghai) Trading Co., Ltd. 
    Same 
    2003 
    Shanghai, China 
        
    Fastenal (Shanghai) International Trading Co. Ltd. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Shanghai, China 
        
    Fastenal (Tianjin) International Trading Co. Ltd. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Tianjin, China 
        
    Fastenal (Shenzhen) International Trading Co. Ltd. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Shenzhen, China 
      India 
    Fastenal India Sourcing, IT and Procurement Private Ltd. 
    Same 
    2013 
    India 
        
    Fastenal India Wholesale Private Ltd. 
    Same 
    2013 
    India 
      Southeast Asia 

Singapore 
    Fastenal Singapore PTE Ltd. 
    Same 
    2001 
    Singapore 
      Malaysia 
    Fastenal Malaysia SDN BHD 
    Same 
    2009 
    Malaysia 
      Thailand 
    Fastenal (Thailand) Ltd. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Thailand 
      Europe 

The Netherlands 
    Fastenal Europe, B.V. 
    Same 
    2003 
    The Netherlands 
        
    Fastenal Netherlands Holdings, B.V. 
    Same 
    2015 
    The Netherlands 
      Hungary 
    Fastenal Europe, Kft. 
    Same 
    2009 
    Hungary 
      United Kingdom 
    Fastenal Europe, Ltd. 
    Same 
    2010 
    United Kingdom 
      Germany 
    Fastenal Europe GmbH 
    Same 
    2011 
    Germany 
      Czech Republic 
    Fastenal Europe, s.r.o. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Czech Republic 
      Italy 
    Fastenal Europe S.r.l. 
    Same 
    2011 
    Italy 
      Romania 
    Fastenal Europe RO S.r.l. 
    Same 
    2012 
    Romania 
      Sweden 
    Fastenal Europe AB 
    Same 
    2013 
    Sweden 
      Poland 
    Fastenal Europe Sp. z o.o. 
    Same 
    2013 
    Poland 
      Austria 
    Fastenal AT GmbH 
    Same 
    2016 
    Austria 
      Africa 

South Africa 
    Fastenal South Africa Trading and Distribution (PTY) LTD 
    Same 
    2013 
    South Africa 

</EX-21>

<EX-23>
 4
 fast1231201610-kexhibit23.htm
 CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23 
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
  The Board of Directors and Stockholders of Fastenal Company: 
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (no. 333-52765, no. 333-134211, no. 333-162619, and no. 333-176401) on Form S-8 of Fastenal Company of our report dated   February 6, 2017  , relating to the consolidated balance sheets of Fastenal Company and subsidiaries as of   December 31, 2016   and   2015  , and the related consolidated statements of earnings, comprehensive income, stockholders  equity, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended   December 31, 2016  , and the related financial statement schedule, and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2016  , which report appears in the   December 31, 2016   annual report on Form 10-K, of Fastenal Company. 
    
  /s/  KPMG LLP 
  Minneapolis, Minnesota 
  February 6, 2017    

</EX-23>

<EX-31>
 5
 fast1231201610-kexhibit31.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS UNDER SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXELY ACT OF 2002

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31 
  CERTIFICATIONS 
  I, Daniel L. Florness, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Fastenal Company; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    February 6, 2017 

/s/    Daniel L. Florness 

Daniel L. Florness 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

Exhibit 31 (Continued) 
  CERTIFICATIONS 
  I, Holden Lewis, certify that: 
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Fastenal Company; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a) 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b) 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c) 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d) 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a) 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b) 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant's internal control over financial reporting. 

Date: 
    February 6, 2017 

/s/    Holden Lewis 

Holden Lewis 

Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31>

<EX-32>
 6
 fast1231201610-kexhibit32.htm
 CERTIFICATIONS UNDER SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32 
  CERTIFICATION UNDER SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
  Pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, each of the undersigned certifies that this periodic report fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in this periodic report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Fastenal Company. 
  A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to Fastenal Company and will be retained by Fastenal Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

/s/    Daniel L. Florness 
      
    /s/    Holden Lewis 
        
    Daniel L. Florness 
      
    Holden Lewis 
        
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
      
    Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
        
    (Principal Executive Officer) 
      
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-32>

<EX-101.INS>
 27
 fast-20161231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 28
 fast-20161231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 29
 fast-20161231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 30
 fast-20161231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 31
 fast-20161231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 32
 fast-20161231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

