<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180330_10-K_edgar_data_1353283_0001353283-18-000004_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>11503931</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>404327</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>638144</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>4229092</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4523575</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1449426</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>73</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>12</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001353283-18-000004.hdr.sgml : 20180330
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180330172146
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001353283-18-000004
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		85
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20180131
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180330
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180330

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			SPLUNK INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001353283
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				861106510
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0131

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	001-35498
		FILM NUMBER:		18726679

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		270 BRANNAN STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94107
		BUSINESS PHONE:		415-848-8400

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		270 BRANNAN STREET
		CITY:			SAN FRANCISCO
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94107

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001353283-18-000004.txt : 20180330

10-K
 1
 a01311810k.htm
 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  WASHINGTON, D. C. 20549 

FORM 10-K 

For the Fiscal Year Ended:    January 31, 2018    
  OR 

Commission File Number: 001-35498 

SPLUNK INC. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 
    
                   Delaware 
      
    86-1106510 
      (State or other jurisdiction of 
      
    (I.R.S. Employer 
      incorporation or organization) 
      
    Identification No.) 

270 Brannan Street 
  San Francisco, California 94107 
  (Address of principal executive offices) 
  (Zip Code) 
    
  (415) 848-8400 
  (Registrant s telephone number, including area code) 
  Securities Registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act: 
    
                   Title of each class 
      
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Common Stock, $0.001 par value per share 
      
    The NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 

Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities 
  Act:    Yes    x      No   
  Indicate by check mark if the Registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the 
  Act:    Yes          No    x 
  Indicate by check mark whether the Registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the Registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days.    Yes    x      No   
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).    Yes    x     No     
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of Registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K, or any amendment to this Form 10-K.       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  and  emerging growth company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act. (Check one): 
    
                   Large accelerated filer 
    x 
    Accelerated filer 

Non-accelerated filer 
     (Do not check if a smaller reporting company) 
    Smaller reporting company 

Emerging growth company 
    o 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.   o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act).    Yes    No    x 
    
  The aggregate market value of shares of common stock held by non-affiliates of the registrant was $5,211,529,143, based on the number of shares held by non-affiliates and the last reported sale price of the registrant s common stock on July 31, 2017 (the last business day of the registrant's most recently completed second fiscal quarter). 
    
  The number of shares outstanding of the Registrant s Common Stock as of March 22, 2018 was 144,033,697 shares. 

Documents Incorporated by Reference 
  Portions of the registrant s definitive Proxy Statement for the   2018   Annual Stockholders  Meeting are incorporated by reference into Part III of this Annual Report on Form 10-K.  

Table of Contents  
    Page 
  No. 

PART I  
    3    

Item 1. 
     Business  
    3 
      Item 1A. 
     Risk Factors  
    13 
      Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    36 
      Item 2. 
     Properties  
    36 
      Item 3. 
     Legal Proceedings  
    37 
      Item 4. 
     Mine and Safety Disclosures  
    37 

PART II  
    38 

Item 5. 
     Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    38 
      Item 6. 
     Selected Financial Data  
    40 
      Item 7. 
     Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    41    
      Item 7A. 
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    57 
      Item 8. 
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    58 
      Item 9. 
     Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    89 
      Item 9A. 
     Controls and Procedures  
    89    
      Item 9B. 
     Other Information  
    91 

PART III  
    92    

Item 10. 
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    92 
      Item 11.  
     Executive Compensation  
    92 
      Item 12. 
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  
    92 
      Item 13. 
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    92 
      Item 14. 
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    92 

PART IV  
    93 

Item 15. 
     Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules  
    93 
      Item 16. 
     Form 10-K Summary  
    93 
        
     Signatures  
    97 

2 

Table of Contents  

PART I 
    
  NOTE REGARDING FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  
    
  This Annual Report on Form 10-K, including but not limited to the sections entitled  Business,   Risk Factors,  and  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  contains forward-looking statements that involve risks and uncertainties, as well as assumptions that, if they never materialize or prove incorrect, could cause our results to differ materially from those expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Statements that are not purely historical are forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act of 1933, as amended, and Section 21E of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ). Forward-looking statements are often identified by the use of words such as, but not limited to,  anticipate,   believe,   can,   continue,   could,   estimate,   expect,   intend,   may,   plan,   project,   seek,   should,   target,   will,   would  and similar expressions or variations intended to identify forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements include, but are not limited to, statements concerning the following:  
             
    our future financial and operating results; including trends in and expectations regarding revenues, deferred revenue, billings, gross margins, operating income and the proportion of transactions that will be recognized ratably; 
                
    market opportunity;  
                
    expected benefits to customers and potential customers of our offerings, as well as our user-driven ecosystem; 
                
    investment strategy, business strategy and growth strategy, including our business model transition and the use of acquisitions to expand our business; 
                
    sales and marketing strategy, including our international sales strategy;  
                
    management s plans, beliefs and objectives for future operations;  
                
    our ability to provide compelling, uninterrupted and secure cloud services to our customers;  
                
    expectations about competition; 
                
    economic and industry trends or trend analysis;  
                
    expectations about the benefits of acquisitions; 
                
    expectations about seasonality;  
                
    revenue mix;  
                
    expected impact of changes in accounting rules or standards; 
                
    use of non-GAAP financial measures;  
                
    operating expenses, including changes in research and development, sales and marketing, facilities and general and administrative expenses;  
                
    sufficiency of cash to meet cash needs for at least the next 12 months;  
                
    exposure to interest rate changes;  
                
    inflation;  
                
    anticipated income tax rates, tax estimates and tax standards; and 
                
    capital expenditures, cash flows and liquidity. 
       
  These statements represent the beliefs and assumptions of our management based on information currently available to us. Such forward-looking statements are subject to risks, uncertainties and other important factors that could cause actual results and the timing of certain events to differ materially from future results expressed or implied by such forward-looking statements. Factors that could cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those identified below, and those discussed in the section titled  Risk Factors  included under Part I, Item 1A. Furthermore, such forward-looking statements speak only as of the date of this report. Except as required by law, we undertake no obligation to update any forward-looking statements to reflect events or circumstances that occur after the date of this report. 

Item 1.  Business 
  Overview 
  Splunk provides innovative software solutions that enable organizations to gain real-time operational intelligence by harnessing the value of their data. Our offerings enable users to collect, index, search, explore, monitor, correlate and analyze data regardless of format or source. Our offerings address large and diverse data sets commonly referred to as big data and are specifically tailored for machine data. Machine data is produced by nearly every software application and electronic device across an organization and contains a definitive, time-stamped record of various activities, such as transactions, customer and user behavior, and security threats. Beyond an organization's traditional information technology ( IT ) and security infrastructure, data from the Industrial Internet, including industrial control systems, sensors, SCADA systems, networks, manufacturing systems, smart meters and the Internet of Things ( IoT ) which includes consumer-oriented systems, such as  
  
   3 

     Table of Contents  

electronic wearables, mobile devices, automobiles and medical devices are also continuously generating machine data. Our offerings help organizations gain the value contained in machine data by delivering real-time information to enable operational decision making.  
    
  Our mission is to make machine data accessible, usable and valuable to everyone in an organization. Our customers leverage our offerings for various use cases, including infrastructure and operations management, security and compliance, applications management and business analytics, and to provide insights into data generated by the IoT and industrial data, among many others. Our offerings are intended to help users in various roles, including IT, security and business professionals, quickly analyze their machine data and achieve real-time visibility into and intelligence about their organization s operations. We believe this operational intelligence enables organizations to improve service levels, reduce operational costs, mitigate security risks, demonstrate and maintain compliance, and drive better business decisions. The result is an improved level of operational visibility enabling more informed business decisions that can provide greater efficiency, security and competitive advantage for our customers. 
  Our flagship product is Splunk Enterprise, a machine data platform, comprised of collection, indexing, search, reporting, analysis, alerting, monitoring and data management capabilities. Splunk Enterprise can collect and index petabytes of machine data daily, irrespective of format or source. Our machine data platform uses our patented data processing architecture that performs dynamic schema creation at read time, rather than write time, enabling users to run queries on data without having to define or understand the structure of the data prior to collection and indexing. This is in contrast to traditional IT systems that require users to establish the format of their data prior to collection in order to answer a pre-set list of questions. Splunk Enterprise also enables customers to interactively explore, analyze and visualize data stored in data sources such as Hadoop and Amazon S3. Our technology delivers speed, scalability and advanced analytics including machine learning when processing massive amounts of machine data for anomaly detection, event grouping, prediction and other methods. Our software leverages improvements in the cost and performance of commodity computing and can be deployed in a wide variety of computing environments, from a single laptop to large globally distributed data centers as well as public, private and hybrid cloud environments. 
  Splunk Cloud delivers the benefits of Splunk Enterprise deployed and managed reliably and scalably as a service. Splunk Cloud is available internationally and eliminates the need to purchase, deploy, and manage infrastructure. Splunk Cloud can be used to collect, analyze and store data in a public cloud environment or via a hybrid approach that spans cloud and on-premises environments. A single Splunk interface can search data stored in both on-premises Splunk Enterprise instances as well as Splunk Cloud instances, providing a single point of visibility and analysis across the customer s entire enterprise.  
  Splunk Light provides log search and analysis that is designed, priced and packaged for small IT environments, where a single-server log analytics solution is sufficient, and can be purchased through our online store or via our channel partners. 
  Our premium solutions are purpose-built to address key customer needs. Splunk premium solutions are sold separately and include: 
             
    Splunk Enterprise Security - Addresses emerging security threats and security information and event management ( SIEM ) use cases through monitoring, alerting, reporting, investigation and forensic analysis. 
                
    Splunk IT Service Intelligence - Monitors the health and key performance indicators of critical IT and business services with machine learning. 
                
    Splunk User Behavior Analytics - Detects cyber-attacks and insider threats using data science, machine learning and advanced correlation. 
     We also complement the capabilities of Splunk Enterprise, Splunk Cloud and our premium solutions with additional content ( apps  and  add-ons ). These apps and add-ons, which are generally available for download from within our offerings, via our Splunkbase website or in our Splunk Cloud environment, provide functionality in the form of pre-built data inputs, workflows, searches, reports, alerts and dashboards that make it easier and faster for our customers to address specific use cases. Splunk, along with a number of third-party developers and customers, have developed hundreds of apps and add-ons for common data sources and valuable use cases in our core and adjacent markets. Many of these apps and add-ons are available as free downloads. Examples of apps that we and our partners have developed include:  
             
    Splunk Machine Learning Toolkit ( MLTK ) - A free app that enables customers to apply machine learning techniques and algorithms to data stored in Splunk. The MLTK includes public machine learning application programming interfaces ( APIs ) for open source and proprietary algorithms and a data prep module to help customers prepare and clean their data before initiating machine learning modeling. 
     
   4 

     Table of Contents  

Splunk App for AWS - Collects and analyzes data from AWS data sources to deliver security, operational and cost management insights via pre-built dashboards, reports and alerts. 
                
    Splunk DB Connect - Enables customers to get business and enterprise context such as customer, product and HR data from traditional relational databases using real-time integration 
     Splunk Apps enable us to deliver greater customer value, target new markets, accelerate user adoption and address markets traditionally served by point solutions. Often, customers start with one app before expanding into other apps and use cases, driving incremental usage, licensing and revenues for Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud. 
  As part of our strategy to offer an open platform, we provide APIs, software development kits ( SDKs ) in major programming languages, and extensions for popular integrated development environments ( IDEs ) like Eclipse and Microsoft Visual Studio. These enable developers to build software that leverages Splunk Enterprise or Splunk Cloud as well as integrate with other parts of an organizations  IT infrastructure.  
  Our online user community websites, Splunkbase and Splunk Answers, provide our customers with an environment to share apps, collaborate on the use of our software and provide community-based support and education. Additionally, our Splunk Dev portal allows developers to download SDKs, access API documentation and see sample code for building applications using our developer environment and tools. We believe this user-driven ecosystem results in greater use of our offerings and provides cost-effective marketing, increased brand awareness and affinity, as well as viral adoption of our offerings. 
  Our offerings are designed to deliver rapid return-on-investment for our customers. They generally do not require customization, long deployment cycles or extensive professional services commonly associated with traditional enterprise software applications. Prospective users can get started with our free online sandboxes that enable our customers to immediately try and experience Splunk offerings. Users that prefer to deploy the software on-premises can take advantage of our free 60-day trial of Splunk Enterprise, which converts into a limited free perpetual license of up to 500 megabytes of data per day. Paying users can sign up for Splunk Cloud and avoid the need to provision, deploy and manage internal infrastructure. Alternatively, they can simply download and install the software, typically in a matter of hours, to connect to their relevant machine data sources. Customers can also provision a compute instance on AWS via a pre-built Amazon Machine Image, which delivers a pre-configured virtual machine instance with our Splunk Enterprise software. In fiscal 2017, we introduced free development-test licenses for certain commercial customers, allowing customers to explore new data and use cases in a non-production environment without incurring additional fees. We also offer support, training and professional services to our customers to assist in the deployment of our software.  
  As of   January 31, 2018  , we had over   15,000   customers, including more than   85   of the Fortune 100 companies. Splunk pricing offers scalable solutions tailored to ensure that our customers can realize value for their investment. Our Splunk Enterprise customers pay license fees generally based on their estimated peak daily indexing capacity needs. Our pricing model builds in volume discounts as daily ingestion rates increase. From time to time, our customers enter into transactions that are designed to enable broad adoption of our software across their entire organization, referred to as enterprise adoption agreements ( EAAs ). EAAs provide these customers with a flexible licensing model that provides the freedom to use our software beyond their original daily indexing capacity estimates and more predictable costs that can be budgeted over a multi-year period. Our Splunk Cloud customers pay an annual subscription fee based on the combination of the volume of data indexed per day and the amount of data they wish to store. For fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , our revenues were   $1,270.8 million  ,   $950.0 million   and   $668.4 million  , respectively, representing year-over-year growth of   34%   for fiscal   2018   and   42%   for fiscal   2017  . Our net losses for fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016   were   $259.1 million  ,   $355.2 million   and   $278.8 million  , respectively.  
  Our Growth Strategy  
  Our goal is to make Splunk the standard platform for delivering operational intelligence and real-time business insights from machine data. The key elements of our strategy are to: 
  Extend our technological capabilities.      We intend to continue to invest heavily in product development to deliver additional features and performance enhancements, deployment models and solutions that can address new end markets. In particular, we intend to invest in our suite of cloud services to both deliver new capabilities as well as provide a cloud-first experience to our customers. We will continue to expand into adjacent products, services and technologies that enable organizations to further realize the value of their machine data across cloud and on-premises environments. Our investments may involve hiring and associated development, acquisitions and licensing of third party technology. 
  Continue to expand our direct and indirect sales organization, including our channel relationships, to increase our sales capacity and enable greater market presence.      We will continue to increase investments in our sales and marketing organizations to enable the acquisition of new customers as well as expansion within our current customer base. Our  
  
   5 

     Table of Contents  

investments will be spread across geographies, customer tiers and industries. We will continue to invest in and foster the growth of our channel relationships, both inside and outside the United States, to enable greater leverage in our go-to-market investments. We will also expand go-to-market channels that enable new ways to consume our offerings.  
  Further penetrate our existing customer base and drive enterprise-wide adoption.      We will continue to drive customer satisfaction and renewals by offering community, standard, enterprise and global support to ensure our customers  success with our offerings. We will continue to cultivate incremental sales from our existing customers through increased use of our offerings within organizations as well as consultative services that broaden the customer s awareness of our product and service capabilities. In particular, we will continue to seek to upsell increased indexing capacity to our existing customers for additional deployments and new use cases. We believe our existing customer base serves as a strong source of incremental revenues given the horizontal applicability of our offerings and the growing machine data volumes our customers experience. Our sales teams are responsible for securing new customers, obtaining renewals of existing contracts and increasing adoption of our software by existing customers. 
    Enhance our value proposition through a focus on solutions which address core and expanded use cases.      We will continue to organize our go-to-market and product strategy around our customer use cases. We have invested in market groups in the Security, IT, Business Analytics and IoT areas. This approach includes offering capabilities, either in the form of platform features or premium solutions, which target both our core use cases as well as new use cases, as driven by our corporate strategy and customer demand. We believe premium solutions in particular will enable us to increase our market penetration, expand our addressable market opportunity and make our products a more targeted solution for specific challenges that our customers face across their organizations.  
  Grow our user communities and partner ecosystem to increase awareness of our brand, target new use cases, drive operational leverage and deliver more targeted, higher value solutions.      We believe our user community has the potential to provide significant operating leverage by delivering apps that extend the Splunk platform into new use cases. We will continue to invest in business development initiatives in order to add additional OEM and strategic relationships to enable new sales channels for our offerings as well as extend our product integrations with third-party products. In addition, once these relationships have been established, we expect that OEM vendors and managed service providers will continue to invest in and create customized application functionality based on our platform. 
  Continue to deliver a rich developer environment to enable rapid development of enterprise applications that leverage machine data and the Splunk platform.      We intend to continue our investments in SDKs and APIs that help software developers leverage the Splunk platform. Our SDKs enable developers to build solutions that deeply integrate the analytics functionality of our offerings across the enterprise. Through our investments in SDKs and APIs, we intend to promote and extend the capabilities of our offerings to customers who wish to build sophisticated applications and interfaces that leverage our software and services. 
  Pricing 
  We price our offerings primarily on the amount of data indexed, namely the maximum aggregate volume of uncompressed data indexed on a daily basis, expressed in gigabytes, terabytes or petabytes per day. Once a data ingestion license is purchased, there is no limit or additional costs based on other product usage elements nor the customer s preferred deployment size or model. Our Splunk Cloud customers generally pay an annual subscription fee based on the combination of the volume of data indexed per day and the amount of data they wish to store. 
  For organizations that choose to standardize on Splunk software as their enterprise-wide platform for machine data, we offer EAAs, which provide our customers with a flexible licensing model and the freedom to use our software beyond their purchased license capacity. EAAs are designed to benefit organizations of any size, from small and midsize businesses to Fortune 100 companies and provide customers with more predictable costs that can be budgeted over a multi-year period as well as enable expansion to new use cases without penalty or cost.   
  Some of our offerings address markets where other pricing models may be prevalent. For example, the pricing of Splunk User Behavior Analytics, which helps detect cyber-attacks and insider threats using data science, machine learning and advanced correlation, is based on the number of monitored user and system accounts.  
  Splunk Technology 
  Key Technologies 
  We believe our investments in our products and key technologies provide significant competitive differentiation. Our key technologies are architected to support large volumes of machine data at a massive scale with minimal overhead. Our  
  
   6 

     Table of Contents  

platform is highly flexible and is able to collect and index large amounts of heterogeneous data formats, from physical, virtual and/or cloud environments.  
  Schema-on-the-fly.      Our products collect and index data irrespective of source and format. Rather than requiring that data be input in a pre-defined structure, our schema-on-the-fly technology creates structure as data is being searched, allowing users to ask new and different questions at any time without having to re-architect a schema as would be required in a relational database. Our technology builds a schema at read time, rather than write time, and does not require pre-defined knowledge about the data it is processing. Using our technology, different users can run a variety of queries, regardless of changes in format of the data being input into the system. 
  Machine data platform.      Our products enable users to process machine data no matter the infrastructure topology, from a single machine to a globally distributed, virtualized IT infrastructure. This machine data platform allows customers to address the complexities of handling massive amounts of real-time, dynamic, heterogeneous machine data. Our APIs enable users to forward data from our software to other parts of their IT network, creating a machine data platform across the organization irrespective of whether the data is used by our products for analysis and reporting or as a conduit to other systems. 
  Search processing language.      Our proprietary search processing language is specifically designed for working with machine data. Our search language supports arithmetic operations to refine searches and conduct calculations with the results of a query in real time. Statistical and reporting commands native to our search language, including machine learning algorithm support, let users perform more robust calculations and analytics. Our software can also learn about the structure of the machine data through the searches users conduct, allowing users to utilize the machine data structure and knowledge garnered by previous Splunk searches. Our software includes acceleration technology that delivers high performance for analytical operations across terabytes or petabytes of data, such as identifying rare terms and performing aggregation operations. 
    
    Machine Learning  .    The Splunk platform allows our customers to apply machine learning analytics to better predict and help prevent IT, security and IoT incidents, and can also be used to forecast key business indicators. Machine learning embedded in our software offers customers advanced analytics as an integrated, turnkey part of IT and security use cases. 
    
    Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud 
  Features and Functionality 
  Our Splunk Enterprise platform contains the following features and functionalities and Splunk Cloud delivers the benefits of Splunk Enterprise as a cloud service.  
    Universally collect, index, store and archive any machine data, from any source.      Splunk Enterprise processes machine data in real time from any source, format or location. This includes streaming data generated by websites, applications, servers, networks, sensors and mobile devices. 
    Search and investigate.      Splunk Enterprise allows users to search real-time and historical machine data simultaneously. 
    User-friendly interface.      Splunk Enterprise uses a customizable interface that enables users to understand and adopt the product. The user interface also provides productivity features, such as type-ahead and contextual help to accelerate adoption and usage. 
    Knowledge store.      Users can store knowledge about events, fields, transactions, patterns, statistics and key-value pairs so others who utilize the Splunk instance can leverage this information. 
    Monitor and alert.      Users can save searches so they can be run automatically to raise real-time alerts that trigger actions such as sending emails, running scripts, or posting to an RSS feed. 
    Report and analyze.      Users can create ad hoc reports on real-time and historical data to analyze business and IT data trends. 
    Custom dashboards and views.      Splunk Enterprise enables users to create custom dashboards that integrate multiple charts and views of real-time and historical data for different users and roles. 
    Data models and pivot.      Splunk Enterprise enables users to build data models that describe relationships in the underlying machine data, making it more meaningful and usable. Non-technical users can generate charts, visuals and dashboards using the pivot interface, without the need to master the Splunk Search Processing Language.  
  
   7 

     Table of Contents  

Developer platform.      Splunk Enterprise includes a rich developer environment. The Splunk Web Framework enables developers to use the tools and languages they know, such as JavaScript, to build Splunk apps with custom dashboards, a flexible UI and custom data visualizations. SDKs for Java, JavaScript, C# and Python enable rapid integration between Splunk Enterprise to other applications and systems to maximize the value of our customers  data. 
    Role-based access controls.      Splunk Enterprise incorporates role-based access controls and authentication, integrated with existing enterprise-wide security policies, to help secure the data stored within our indexes as well as control users  activities in our software. 
  Technology Architecture 
  The technology architecture of our Splunk platform contains a number of important components: 
  Collection.      Our Splunk platform collects machine data from many disparate sources across a distributed environment deployed on-premises, or in public and private clouds. This includes servers, network devices, message buses, API endpoints, desktop and laptop computers, mobile devices and various other systems that organizations have deployed to support their operations. Our products act as a recording mechanism, collecting, storing and making available all of the machine data that they index and store. Splunk offers a Universal Forwarder and other data ingestion tools that can be deployed on various data sources to facilitate the reliable collection of machine data. Splunk Enterprise features native support for metrics, which are sets of numbers describing a particular process or activity, measured over time. Our Splunk platform uses a custom index type that is optimized for metric storage and retrieval for system metrics such as CPU, memory, disk or information from IoT devices. 
  Indexing.      Our proprietary universal indexing technology enables real-time indexing of any data collected regardless of its source or format and without the use of any specific parsers or data connectors. Our Splunk platform indexes the data and stores the data in a scalable storage format, which can reside on commodity servers and storage devices. In the case of Splunk Cloud, data is stored securely in our cloud service, which we host on Amazon Web Services. 
  Search.      Our Splunk platform enables users to search massive amounts of machine data that have been indexed and stored. At its most basic level, the search engine at the core of our Splunk platform allows users to type and search for keywords or data fields that are of interest. This foundational capability forms the basis for deriving business insights from our dashboards and customized views. Users can leverage our search language and functionality to filter through indexed data and refine search results to obtain more precise information. Splunk also provides event pattern detection to allow users to detect meaningful patterns in their machine data, regardless of data source or type. 
  Core functions.      Our Splunk platform s core functionality includes alerts, access control, statistics, correlation and predictive capabilities. With our software s granular, role-based access control, an administrator can manage various aspects of a given user s search including the data to which the user has access, as well as what portions of the data may be visible in results. Search results and reports can be defined according to a particular user s business function and level of access. Different users can see completely different views on the same data, depending on what is important to them. 
  Archive to Hadoop and Amazon S3.      Splunk Enterprise customers can archive historical data to Hadoop or Amazon S3 for low-cost storage as a standard feature. Customers can gain new insights with distributed search queries that correlate real-time data from Splunk Enterprise with historical data stored in Hadoop or Amazon S3. 
  SDKs and APIs.      Our SDKs allow third-party software developers to build enterprise applications on top of our software using popular programming languages such as Java, JavaScript, C# and Python. Our APIs allow users to access the machine data stored within the Splunk platform instance as well as access our machine data engine functionality from third-party software. 
  App Development Environment.      We provide the ability for users and third-party developers to create apps with custom dashboards, flexible UI components and custom data visualizations using freely available components and templates, as well as common development languages and frameworks, such as JavaScript and Python. 
  Splunk Product Deployments 
  Splunk Enterprise can be deployed on-premises and in public or private clouds. Splunk Cloud delivers the benefits of Splunk Enterprise as a cloud service. Taking Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud together, customers utilizing a hybrid deployment model can have a single centralized view and location-independent use across cloud and on-premises environments.  
  For Splunk Enterprise deployments, our software can be deployed in a variety of environments ranging from a single server to globally distributed enterprise IT environments handling petabytes of data per day. Our customers can deploy Splunk  
  
   8 

     Table of Contents  

Enterprise on-premises, in the cloud, in virtualized server and storage environments or in hybrid IT environments. Our customers can use Splunk forwarders, indexers, and search heads to create a machine data platform that allows for the efficient, secure and real-time collection and indexing of machine data regardless of network, data center or IT infrastructure topology. 
  This distributed machine data processing architecture provides near-linear scalability, resulting in the ability to index and search across massive data volumes. Our Splunk platform can operate in a single data center or across multiple data centers both inside and outside an organization, and all from a single user interface. This architecture also allows for flexible deployment of hardware, as commodity hardware can be added as needed. 
  Services 
  While users can easily download, install and deploy Splunk software on their own, certain enterprise customers that have large, highly complex IT environments or deployment requirements may choose to leverage our customer support and professional services organization. Many users leverage the community-based support of Splunk Apps and Add-ons and Splunk Answers before engaging with our customer support or services organizations. Some of our certified partners also provide limited, first level support and professional services before a customer reaches out to our internal Splunk customer support and professional services teams. 
  Maintenance and Customer Support 
  Our customers typically purchase one year of software maintenance and support as part of their initial purchase of our perpetual licenses, with an option to renew their maintenance agreements. Term license purchases include software maintenance and support for the term of the license. These maintenance agreements provide customers the right to receive unspecified software updates, maintenance releases and patches, and access to our technical support services during the term of the agreement.  
  We maintain a customer support organization that offers multiple service levels for our customers based on their needs. Enterprise or Global support customers receive 24x7x365 access to subject matter experts for critical issues, direct telephone support, access to online support and software upgrades. Additionally, Global support provides a designated resource to manage the account and quarterly reviews of the customer s deployments. Our customer support organization has global capabilities, delivering support with deep expertise in our software, complex IT environments and associated third party infrastructure. 
  Training Services 
  We offer training services to our customers and channel partners through our education and training organization. We have also implemented a comprehensive training certification program to ensure an understanding of our offerings.   
  Professional Services 
  We provide consulting and implementation services to customers through our professional services team. They are typically utilized by large enterprises looking to deploy our software across their large, disparate and complex IT infrastructure. We generally provide these services at the time of initial installation to help the customer with configuration and implementation. Given our software s ease-of-use, our professional services engagements are typically short in duration and last from a few days to up to several weeks. 
  Partner and Developer Ecosystem 
  We have established relationships with several leading technology companies to build Splunk apps that allow users to capture data and gain insights into those parties  respective products. Many technology providers offer apps for free via the Splunkbase website. These apps typically consist of collections of reports, dashboards and data extractions which put our software in context for users of those specific technologies and allow them to easily and quickly understand the performance of their IT systems or correlate this data with other data sources. 
  We offer a developer license that allows third-party developers to build software using our existing developer framework and we have published information about our APIs to enable developers to build new user interfaces on top of our platform. We are creating additional SDKs based on various programming languages to make our software more extensible and allow developers to build applications and services that extend its functionality. 
  We have OEM relationships with a select group of third parties who integrate our software into their product offerings to provide additional reporting, monitoring and analytic capabilities within their own products. With respect to our OEM relationships, we provide a limited use license to expose certain data and analytics functionalities in their products, for which they generally pay us a royalty based on units shipped. 
  
   9 

     Table of Contents  

We engage with managed service providers, who offer services based on our software, such as for security and log management. These services are typically offered on a subscription basis, for which we are paid license fees typically based on daily indexing volume. 
  Splunk Communities 
  Our online communities provide us with a growing network of active users who promote the usage of our software and provide technical support to each other. 
  Our online communities include Splunkbase, our apps repository, Splunk Answers, our community collaboration site, and Splunk Dev, where developers can download SDKs, access API documentation and see sample code for building applications using our developer environment and tools. We also maintain active communities on leading social internet platforms, including Facebook, Twitter and LinkedIn. 
    Splunk Apps and Add-ons.      Users and partners contribute and share custom apps and add-ons that run on our software. Generally, these apps provide pre-built functionality that addresses specific use cases. Currently, we have hundreds of apps available for download on the Splunkbase website. We do not receive any revenues from the sale of apps by third-party application providers, and most apps posted to Splunkbase are free. Partner apps listed on Splunkbase that are not free are licensed directly by the third party to the end user. 
    Splunk Answers.      Users ask questions in an online community forum and share best practices about how to build searches, create data visualizations and configure and deploy our software. While our product, support, engineering and professional services teams participate in the Splunk Answers forum, the majority of questions appearing on Splunk Answers are answered by non-Splunk personnel, largely the result of a growing, active user community. 
  Splunk Dev.      In addition to documentation about the Splunk APIs and SDKs, our developer portal contains documentation about best practices for building machine data output into third-party software. 
  We also promote and support offline meetings for our community, including regional user group meetings and an annual user conference. 
  Sales and Marketing 
  Our sales and marketing organizations work together closely to drive market awareness, build a sales pipeline, and cultivate customer relationships to drive revenue growth. 
  Sales 
  We sell our offerings through direct field sales, direct inside sales and indirect channel partners. We gather prospects through a broad range of marketing programs and events, and through users who either download our trial software from our website or sign up for our online sandboxes or cloud services. Our sales development teams handle lead qualifications. Large or complex transactions are handled by our globally distributed direct field sales teams. Our sales engineers help define customer use cases and pre-sales qualification and evaluation. 
  We maintain an extensive partner ecosystem, of which many types of partners contribute to sourcing, co-selling and fulfilling Splunk sales. These partner types include distributors, resellers and managed service providers. Our channel assists us by sourcing new prospects through leveraging their deep customer relationships, providing professional services and support to existing customers, upselling for additional use cases and maintenance renewals. Our Splunk Partner+ Program is based on providing a simple and predictable business model for our partners and Splunk. Our channel expands our geographic sales reach worldwide, across all our sales theaters. The Partner+ Program includes over 1,600 active partners that span our global system integrators, distributors, value-added resellers, technology alliance partners, OEMs, professional services and managed services providers. Of that number, more than   900   partners contribute to sales. Historically, the majority of EMEA and APAC sales have been fulfilled through channel partners and we expect this trend to continue. 
  In addition to acquiring new customers, our sales teams are responsible for securing renewals of existing contracts as well as increased adoption of our offerings by existing customers. To accomplish this, our field and inside sales teams work closely with our customers to drive expanded licenses through higher capacity or upgrades and additional use cases within existing customers. Our field sales teams are organized geographically across the Americas, EMEA and APAC. We intend to invest in our sales organization and channel to drive greater market penetration in the Americas, EMEA and APAC. We also have a dedicated sales team focused on government customers, which includes United States federal, state and local government entities. For fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , our revenues from our international operations represented   26%  ,   24%   and   25%   of total revenues, respectively. For additional information regarding our revenues and property and equipment by geographic location, see Note 9 to our consolidated financial statements in Part II, Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  
   10 

     Table of Contents  

Marketing 
  We focus our marketing efforts on generating demand to drive pipeline for our sales force and partners, increasing Splunk s brand and awareness, driving viral adoption, and communicating product advantages and business benefits. We market our offerings as a targeted solution for specific use cases and as an enterprise solution for machine data. We engage with existing and potential customers to provide community-based education and awareness and to promote expanded use of our software within these customers. We host a number of events, including the SplunkLive! event series, across our sales regions to engage with both existing customers and new prospects as well as deliver product training. We host an annual worldwide user conference ( .conf ) and multiple partner conferences as other ways to support the Splunk community to foster collaboration and help our customers drive further business results from our software. 
  Research and Development 
  We invest substantial resources in research and development to enhance our offerings, develop new end market specific solutions and apps, conduct software and quality assurance testing and improve our core technology. Our technical staff monitors and tests our software on a regular basis, and we maintain a regular release process to refine, update, and enhance our existing offerings. 
  Research and development expense totaled   $301.1 million  ,   $295.9 million   and   $215.3 million   for fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Intellectual Property 
  We rely on patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret laws, confidentiality procedures and contractual provisions to protect our technology and intellectual property rights. The nature and extent of legal protection of our intellectual property rights depends on, among other things, its type and the jurisdiction in which it arises. We believe that our intellectual property rights are valuable and important to our business.   
  We retain ownership of software we develop. All software is licensed to users and primarily provided in object code or as a cloud service pursuant to either shrink-wrap, embedded or on-line licenses, or signed license agreements. These agreements generally contain restrictions on duplication, disclosure and transfer. We are currently unable to measure the full extent of unauthorized use of our software. We believe, however, that such unauthorized use is and can be expected to be a persistent problem that negatively impacts our revenue and financial results. 
  Despite our efforts to protect our intellectual property rights, we may be unable to obtain patent, trademark, copyrights or other intellectual property right protection for our technologies, contents and brands, and any such rights we do secure may not be successfully asserted in the future or may be invalidated, circumvented or challenged. In addition, the laws of various foreign countries where our offerings are distributed may not protect our intellectual property rights to the same extent as laws in the United States. For additional information regarding risks related to our intellectual property, see Item 1A,  Risk Factors,  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Customers 
  Our customer base has grown from approximately 450 customers at the end of fiscal 2008 to over   15,000   customers in more than   110   countries, including more than   85   of the Fortune 100 companies, as of   January 31, 2018  . We exclude users of our trial software from our customer count. We provide offerings to customers of varying sizes, including enterprises, educational institutions and government agencies. No individual customer represented greater than 10% of our total revenues in fiscal   2018  ,   2017   or   2016  . One channel partner represented   30%   and a second channel partner represented   17%   of our total revenues in fiscal   2018  . Our current customer base spans numerous industry verticals, including cloud and online services; education; financial services; government; healthcare/pharmaceuticals; industrials/manufacturing; media/entertainment; retail/ecommerce; technology and telecommunications. 
  Backlog and Seasonality 
  Our backlog represents installment billings for periods beyond the current quarterly billing cycle and customer orders received but not processed. We had backlog of approximately   $160.5   million as of January 31, 2018. 
  For information regarding the seasonality in the sale of our offerings, see Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations   Seasonality, Cyclicality and Quarterly Trends  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  Competition 
  
   11 

     Table of Contents  

We compete against a variety of large software vendors and smaller specialized companies, open source projects and custom development efforts, which provide solutions in the specific markets we address. Our principal competitors include: 
             
    IT departments of potential customers which have undertaken custom software development efforts to analyze and manage their machine data; 
                
    companies targeting the big data market by commercializing open source software, such as the various Hadoop distributions and NoSQL data stores, including Elastic; 
                
    security, systems management and other IT vendors, including BMC Software, CA Technologies, Micro Focus, IBM, Intel, Microsoft, and VMware; 
                
    business intelligence vendors, analytics and visualization vendors, including IBM and Oracle; and 
                
    cloud service providers, as well as small, specialized vendors that provide complementary or competitive solutions in enterprise data analytics, log aggregation and management, data warehousing and big data technologies that may compete with our offerings. 
     The principal competitive factors in our markets are product features, performance and support, product scalability and flexibility, ease of deployment and use, total cost of ownership and time to value. We believe that we generally compete favorably on the basis of these factors. For example, Splunk Enterprise, Splunk Cloud, and our premium solutions all contain rich feature sets that reduce costly deployment cycles typically associated with enterprise software.  
  Some of our actual and potential competitors have advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand and business user recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios, broader global distribution and presence, and competitive pricing. In addition, our industry is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly competitive. Larger and more established companies may focus on operational intelligence and could directly compete with us. Companies may develop open source based alternatives that, customers may conclude, offer equivalent or superior functionality to our Splunk offerings. Smaller companies could also launch new offerings that we do not offer and that could gain market acceptance quickly. 
  Employees 
  As of   January 31, 2018  , we had over   3,200   employees. None of our United States employees is represented by a labor union with respect to his or her employment with us. Employees in certain European countries have the benefits of collective bargaining arrangements at the national level. We have not experienced any work stoppages. 
  Corporate Information 
  Our principal executive offices are located at 270 Brannan Street, San Francisco, California 94107, and our telephone number is (415) 848-8400. We were incorporated in California in October 2003 and were reincorporated in Delaware in May 2006. 
  Our website is located at www.splunk.com and our investor relations website is located at http://investors.splunk.com. The information posted on our website is not incorporated into this Annual Report on Form 10-K. Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K and amendments to reports filed or furnished pursuant to Sections 13(a) and 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, are available free of charge on our investor relations website as soon as reasonably practicable after we electronically file such material with, or furnish it to, the SEC. All of our public filings may also be accessed through the SEC s website at www.sec.gov. Further, a copy of this Annual Report on Form 10-K is located at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, D.C. 20549. Information on the operation of the Public Reference Room can be obtained by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. 
  We webcast our earnings calls and certain events we participate in or host with members of the investment community on our investor relations website. Additionally, we provide notifications of news or announcements regarding our financial performance, including SEC filings, investor events, press and earnings releases, as part of our investor relations website. The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this report or in any other report or document we file.  

12 

Table of Contents  

Item 1A. Risk Factors 
    
  Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties including those described below. The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones we face. Additional risks and uncertainties that we are unaware of, or that we currently believe are not material, also may become important factors that affect us. If any of the following risks or others not specified below materialize, our business, financial condition and results of operations could be materially adversely affected. In that case, the trading price of our common stock could decline. 
    
  Our future operating results may fluctuate significantly, we are transitioning our business model, and our recent operating results may not be a good indication of our future performance. 
    
    Our revenues, operating margins, cash flows and other operating results could vary significantly from period to period as a result of various factors, many of which are outside of our control. For example, we have historically generated a majority of our revenues from perpetual license agreements, whereby we generally recognize the license fee portion of the arrangement upfront, assuming all revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. Our customers also have the choice of entering into agreements for term licenses and agreements for our cloud services. We are currently transitioning our business model to shift from perpetual license sales in favor of term license sales and agreements for our cloud services. This transition may give rise to a number of risks, and if we do not successfully execute this transition, our business and future operating results could be adversely affected. 
    
  Under accounting standards update No. 2014-09 (Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which we adopted as of February 1, 2018, we now recognize term license revenues, in addition to perpetual license revenues, upfront and continue to recognize revenues associated with our cloud services ratably over the term of the agreement. At the beginning of each period, we cannot predict the ratio of orders with revenues that will be recognized upfront and those with revenues that will be recognized ratably we will enter into during the quarter. Our operating results and business model could also be significantly impacted by shifts over time in the percentage of term licenses and agreements for our cloud services we receive for our offerings and the duration of theses types of agreements for our offerings. Term licenses and cloud services agreements have shorter contract duration than perpetual licenses, and the shift away from perpetual license sales could cause fluctuations in our operating results. In addition, the size of our licenses varies greatly, and a single, large perpetual or term license in a given period could distort our operating results. The timing and size of large orders are often hard to predict in any particular period. Further, a portion of revenue recognized in any given quarter is a result of ratably recognized agreements entered into during previous quarters, including agreements for our cloud services and maintenance and support agreements. Consequently, a decline in business from such ratably recognized agreements in any quarter may not be reflected in our revenue results for that quarter. Any such decline, however, will negatively affect our revenues in future quarters. Accordingly, the effect of downturns in sales and market acceptance of our offerings may not be fully reflected in our results of operations until future periods. Comparing our revenues and operating results on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and our past results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. 
    
  We may not be able to accurately predict our future revenues or results of operations. In particular, approximately half of the revenues we currently recognize each quarter has been attributable to sales made in that same quarter with the balance of the revenues being attributable to sales made in prior quarters in which the related revenues were not recognized upfront. As a result, our ability to forecast revenues on a quarterly or longer-term basis is extremely limited. We base our current and future expense levels on our operating plans and sales forecasts, and our operating costs are expected to be relatively fixed in the short-term. As a result, we may not be able to reduce our costs sufficiently to compensate for an unexpected shortfall in revenues, and even a small shortfall in revenues could disproportionately and adversely affect our financial results for that quarter. 
    
  In addition to other risk factors described elsewhere in this  Risk Factors  section, factors that may cause our financial results to fluctuate from quarter to quarter include: 

the timing of our sales during the quarter, particularly because a large portion of our sales occur toward the end of the quarter, or the loss or delay of a few large contracts; 

the mix of revenues attributable to larger transactions as opposed to smaller transactions and the impact that a change in mix may have on the overall average selling price ("ASP") of our offerings; 

the mix of revenues attributable to perpetual and term licenses, agreements for our cloud services, enterprise adoption agreements, maintenance and professional services and training, which may impact our revenue, deferred revenue, billings, gross margins and operating income; 
     
   13 

     Table of Contents  

the renewal and usage rates of our customers; 

changes in the competitive dynamics of our market; 

changes in customers  budgets and in the timing of their purchasing decisions; 

changes in our pricing policies or those of our competitors; 

customers delaying purchasing decisions in anticipation of new offerings or software enhancements by us or our competitors; 

customer acceptance of and willingness to pay for new versions of our offerings or new solutions for specific product and end markets; 

our ability to successfully introduce and monetize new offerings and licensing and service models for our new offerings; 

network outages or actual or perceived security breaches; 

the availability and performance of our cloud services, including Splunk Cloud; 

our ability to control costs, including our operating expenses; 

the amount and timing of our stock-based compensation expenses; 

changes in accounting standards, particularly those related to revenue recognition and sales commissions; 

the timing of satisfying revenue recognition criteria; 

our ability to qualify and successfully compete for government contracts; 

the collectability of receivables from customers and resellers, which may be hindered or delayed;  

the removal of metered license enforcement via our software, which could lead to customers delaying renewal or purchasing decisions;  

changes in laws and regulations that impact our business; and  

general economic and political conditions and uncertainty, both domestically and internationally, as well as economic and political conditions and uncertainty specifically affecting industries in which our customers participate. 
       
  Many of these factors are outside our control, and the variability and unpredictability of such factors could result in our failing to meet or exceed our financial expectations for a given period. We believe that quarter-to-quarter comparisons of our revenues, operating results and cash flows may not necessarily be indicative of our future performance. 
     
  If we fail to effectively manage our growth, our business and operating results could be adversely affected. 
    
  Although our business has experienced significant growth, we cannot provide any assurance that our business will continue to grow at the same rate or at all. We have experienced and may continue to experience rapid growth in our headcount and operations, which has placed and will continue to place significant demands on our management and our operational and financial infrastructure. As of   January 31, 2018  , approximately   30%   of our workforce had been employed by us for less than one year. As we continue to grow, we must effectively integrate, develop and motivate a large number of new employees, while maintaining the effectiveness of our business execution and the beneficial aspects of our corporate culture. In particular, we intend to continue to make directed and substantial investments to expand our research and development, sales and marketing, and general and administrative organizations, as well as our international operations. 
    
  To effectively manage growth, we must continue to improve our operational, financial and management controls, and our reporting systems and procedures by, among other things: 
  
   14 

     Table of Contents  

improving our key business applications, processes and IT infrastructure to support our business needs; 

enhancing information and communication systems to ensure that our employees and offices around the world are well-coordinated and can effectively communicate with each other and our growing base of customers and channel partners; 

enhancing our internal controls to ensure timely and accurate reporting of all of our operations and financial results; and 

appropriately documenting our IT systems and our business processes. 
       
  These systems enhancements and improvements will require significant capital expenditures and allocation of valuable management and employee resources. If we fail to implement these improvements effectively, our ability to manage our expected growth, ensure uninterrupted operation of key business systems and comply with the rules and regulations that are applicable to public reporting companies will be impaired. Additionally, if we do not effectively manage the growth of our business and operations, the quality of our offerings could suffer, which could negatively affect our brand, financial results and overall business. 
    
  We face intense competition in our markets, and we may be unable to compete effectively for sales opportunities. 
    
  Although our offerings target the new and emerging market for software and cloud services that provide operational intelligence, we compete against a variety of large software vendors and smaller specialized companies, open source projects and custom development efforts, which provide solutions in the specific markets we address. Our principal competitors include: 

IT departments of potential customers which have undertaken custom software development efforts to analyze and manage their machine data; 

companies targeting the big data market by commercializing open source software, such as the various Hadoop distributions and NoSQL data stores, including Elastic; 

security, systems management and other IT vendors, including BMC Software, CA Technologies, Micro Focus, IBM, Intel, Microsoft and VMware; 

business intelligence vendors, analytics and visualization vendors, including IBM and Oracle; and 

cloud service providers, as well as small, specialized vendors that provide complementary and competitive solutions in enterprise data analytics, log aggregation and management, data warehousing and big data technologies that may compete with our offerings. 
       
  The principal competitive factors in our markets include features, performance and support, scalability and flexibility, ease of deployment and use, total cost of ownership and time to value. Some of our actual and potential competitors have advantages over us, such as longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing or other resources, stronger brand and business user recognition, larger intellectual property portfolios, broader global distribution and presence and more developed ecosystems of partners and skilled users. Further, competitors may be able to offer products or functionality similar to ours at a more attractive price than we can, such as by integrating or bundling their software products with their other product offerings. In addition, our industry is evolving rapidly and is becoming increasingly competitive. Larger and more established companies may focus on operational intelligence and could directly compete with us. For example, companies may commercialize open source software, such as Hadoop or Elasticsearch, in a manner that competes with our offerings or causes potential customers to believe that such product and our offerings perform the same function. If companies move a greater proportion of their data and computational needs to the cloud, new competitors may emerge that offer services comparable to ours or that are better suited for cloud-based data, and the demand for our offerings may decrease. Smaller companies could also launch new products and services that we do not offer and that could gain market acceptance quickly. 
    
  In recent years, there have been significant acquisitions and consolidation by and among our actual and potential competitors. We anticipate this trend of consolidation will continue, which will present heightened competitive challenges to our business. In particular, consolidation in our industry increases the likelihood of our competitors offering bundled or integrated products, and we believe that it may increase the competitive pressures we face with respect to our offerings. If we  
  
   15 

     Table of Contents  

are unable to differentiate our offerings from the integrated or bundled products of our competitors, such as by offering enhanced functionality, performance or value, we may see decreased demand for those offerings, which would adversely affect our business operations, financial results and growth prospects. Further, it is possible that continued industry consolidation may impact customers  perceptions of the viability of smaller or even medium-sized software firms and consequently their willingness to use software solutions from such firms. Similarly, if customers seek to concentrate their software license purchases in the product portfolios of a few large providers, we may be at a competitive disadvantage regardless of the performance and features of our offerings. We believe that in order to remain competitive at the large enterprise level, we will need to develop and expand relationships with resellers and large system integrators that provide a broad range of products and services. If we are unable to compete effectively, our business operations and financial results could be materially and adversely affected. 
    
  Because our business substantially depends on sales of licenses, maintenance and services related to one software product, failure of this offering to satisfy customer demands or to achieve increased market acceptance would adversely affect our results of operations, financial condition and growth prospects. 
    
  Although we have several software and services offerings, our business substantially depends on, and we expect our business to continue to substantially depend on, sales of licenses, maintenance and services related to Splunk Enterprise. As such, the market acceptance of Splunk Enterprise is critical to our continued success. Demand for Splunk Enterprise is affected by a number of factors beyond our control, including continued market acceptance of Splunk Enterprise by referenceable accounts for existing and new use cases, the timing of development and release of new products by our competitors, technological change, and growth or contraction in our market. We expect the proliferation of machine data to lead to an increase in the data analysis demands of our customers, and our offerings may not be able to scale and perform to meet those demands or may not be chosen by users for those needs. If we are unable to continue to meet customer demands or to achieve more widespread market acceptance of Splunk Enterprise, our business operations, financial results and growth prospects will be materially and adversely affected. 
    
  We have a history of losses, and we may not be profitable in the future. 
    
  We have incurred net losses in each year since our inception. As a result, we had an accumulated deficit of   $1.28 billion   at   January 31, 2018  . Because the market for our offerings is rapidly evolving and has not yet reached widespread adoption, it is difficult for us to predict our future operating results. We expect our operating expenses to increase over the next several years as we hire additional personnel, expand and improve the effectiveness of our distribution channels, improve the performance and scalability of our technology architecture, and continue to develop features and functionality for our offerings. In addition, as we grow as a public company, we have incurred and will continue to incur significant legal, accounting and other operating expenses. If our revenues do not increase to offset these increases in our operating expenses, we may not be profitable in future periods. Our historical revenue growth has been inconsistent and should not be considered indicative of our future performance. Further, in future periods, our revenue growth could slow or our revenues could decline for a number of reasons, including slowing demand for our offerings, increasing competition, a decrease in the growth of our overall market, or our failure, for any reason, to continue to capitalize on growth opportunities. Any failure by us to achieve, sustain or increase profitability on a consistent basis could cause the value of our common stock to decline. 
    
  If customers do not expand their use of our offerings beyond the current predominant use cases, our ability to grow our business and operating results may be adversely affected. 
    
  Most of our customers currently use our offerings to support application management, IT operations, security and compliance functions. Our ability to grow our business depends in part on our ability to help enable current and future customers to increase their use of our offerings for their existing use cases and expand their use of our offerings to additional use cases, such as facilities management, supply chain management, business analytics, IoT and customer analytics. If we fail to achieve market acceptance of our offerings for these applications, if our customers are not satisfied with our offerings, or if a competitor establishes a more widely adopted solution for these applications, our ability to grow our business and financial results will be adversely affected.  
    
  We employ multiple, unique and evolving pricing models, which subject us to various pricing and licensing challenges that could make it difficult for us to derive value from our customers and may adversely affect our operating results. 
    
  We employ multiple, unique and evolving pricing models for our offerings. For example, we generally charge our customers for their use of Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Light based on their estimated peak daily indexing capacity. In addition, Splunk Cloud is generally priced based on peak daily indexing capacity and data storage and Splunk Analytics for Hadoop is priced by the number of TaskTracker Nodes (Compute Nodes in YARN) in the respective Hadoop cluster  
  
   16 

     Table of Contents  

while Splunk User Behavior Analytics is priced by the number of monitored user and system accounts. We offer both perpetual and term licensing options for on-premises offerings, as well as a subscription model for cloud services, which each have different payment schedules, and depending on the mix of such licenses and cloud subscriptions, our revenues or deferred revenues could be adversely affected. Our pricing models may ultimately result in a higher total cost to our customers generally as data volumes increase over time, or may cause our customers to limit or decrease usage in order to stay within the limits of their existing licenses or lower their costs, making it more difficult for us to compete in our markets or negatively impacting our financial results. As the amount of machine data within our customers  organizations grows, we face downward pressure from our customers regarding our pricing, which could adversely affect our revenues and operating margins. In addition, our unique pricing models may allow competitors with different pricing models to attract customers unfamiliar or uncomfortable with our pricing models, which would cause us to lose business or modify our pricing models, both of which could adversely affect our revenues and operating margins. While we introduced enterprise adoption agreements to provide pricing predictability to our customers, we have limited experience selling this type of license and our customers may not find this type of license attractive. We have also introduced variations to our pricing models, including but not limited to, pricing programs that provide broader usage and cost predictability as well as tiered pricing based on deployment models, data source types, compute and storage units and customer environments. Although we believe that these pricing models will drive net new customers and customer adoption, it is possible that they will not and may potentially cause confusion with our customers, which could negatively impact our financial results.  
    
  Furthermore, while our offerings can measure and limit customer usage, we recently removed metered license enforcement via our software under certain circumstances, and in other circumstances, such limitations may be improperly circumvented or otherwise bypassed by users. Similarly, we provide our customers with an encrypted license key for enabling their use of our offerings. There is no guarantee that users of our offerings will abide by the terms of these license limitations or encrypted license keys, and if they do not, we may not be able to capture the full value for the use of our offerings. For example, our enterprise license is generally meant for our customers  internal use only. If our internal use customers improperly make our offerings available to their customers or other third parties, for example, through a cloud or managed service offering not authorized by us, it may displace our end user sales. Additionally, if an internal use customer that has received a volume discount from us improperly makes available our offerings to its end customers, we may experience price erosion and be unable to capture the appropriate value from those end customers. 
    
  Our license agreements generally provide that we can audit our customers  use of our offerings or require them to certify their actual usage to ensure compliance with the terms of our license agreement at our request. However, a customer may resist or refuse to allow us to audit their usage, in which case we may have to pursue legal recourse to enforce our rights under the license agreement, which would require us to spend money, distract management and potentially adversely affect our relationship with our customers and users. 
    
  The market for our offerings is new and unproven and may not grow.  
    
  We believe our future success will depend in large part on the growth, if any, in the market for offerings that provide operational intelligence, particularly from machine data. We market our offerings as targeted solutions for specific use cases and as an enterprise solution for machine data. In order to grow our business, we intend to expand the functionality of our offerings to increase their acceptance and use by the broader market as well as develop new offerings. It is difficult to predict customer adoption and renewal rates, customer demand for our offerings, the size and growth rate of this market, the entry of competitive products or the success of existing competitive products. Any expansion in our market depends on a number of factors, including the cost, performance and perceived value associated with our offerings. If our offerings do not achieve widespread adoption or there is a reduction in demand for products in our market caused by a lack of customer acceptance or expansion, technological challenges, security concerns, decreases in accessible machine data, competing technologies and products, pricing pressure, decreases in corporate or information technology spending, weakening economic conditions, or otherwise, it could result in reduced customer orders, early terminations, reduced renewal rates or decreased revenues, any of which would adversely affect our business operations and financial results. We believe that these are inherent risks and difficulties in this new and unproven market. 
    
  We have a short operating history, which makes it difficult to evaluate our future prospects and may increase the risk that we will not be successful.  
    
  We have a short operating history, which limits our ability to forecast our future operating results and subjects us to a number of uncertainties, including our ability to plan for and model future growth. We have encountered and will continue to encounter risks and uncertainties frequently experienced by growing companies in developing industries. If our assumptions regarding these uncertainties, which we use to plan our business, are incorrect or change in reaction to changes in our markets, or if we do not address these risks successfully, our operating and financial results could differ materially from our expectations  
  
   17 

     Table of Contents  

and our business could suffer. Moreover, although we have experienced rapid growth historically, we may not continue to grow as rapidly in the future. Any success that we may experience in the future will depend in large part on our ability to, among other things: 

improve the performance and capabilities of our offerings and technology and architecture through research and development; 

continue to develop, enhance, expand adoption of and globally deliver our cloud services, including Splunk Cloud, and comply with applicable laws in each jurisdiction in which we offer such services; 

successfully develop, introduce and expand adoption of new offerings; 

continue to acquire new customers and increase the number of new customers we acquire;  

increase revenues from existing customers through increased or broader use of our offerings within their organizations; 

successfully and continuously expand our business domestically and internationally; 

maintain and expand our customer base and the ways in which our customers use our offerings; 

successfully compete with other companies, open source projects and custom development efforts that are currently in, or may in the future enter, the markets for our offerings; 

successfully provide our customers a compelling business case to purchase our offerings in a time frame that matches our and our customers  sales and purchase cycles and at a compelling price point; 
       
     respond timely and effectively to competitor offerings and pricing models; 
    
     appropriately price our offerings; 
    
     manage the costs of providing our cloud services; 

generate leads and convert users of the trial versions of our offerings to paying customers; 

prevent users from circumventing the terms of their licenses and cloud subscriptions; 

continue to invest in our platform to deliver additional enhancements and content for our offerings and to foster an ecosystem of developers and users to expand the use cases of our offerings; 

maintain and enhance our website and cloud services infrastructure to minimize interruptions when accessing our offerings; 

process, store and use our employees, customers  and other third parties' data in compliance with applicable governmental regulations and other legal obligations related to data privacy, data protection, data transfer, data residency, encryption and security; 

hire, integrate and retain world-class professional and technical talent; and 

successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies. 
       
  If we fail to address the risks and difficulties we face, including those described elsewhere in this  Risk Factors  section, our business will be adversely affected and our business operations and financial results will suffer. 
    
  Our business and growth depend substantially on customers entering into and renewing their term licenses, agreements for cloud services and maintenance and support agreements with us. Any decline in our customer renewals could adversely affect our future operating results. 

18 

     Table of Contents  

While much of our software is sold under perpetual license agreements, all of our maintenance and support agreements are sold on a term basis. In addition, we also enter into renewable term license agreements for our on-premises offerings and agreements for our cloud services. In order for us to improve our operating results, it is important that customers enter into renewable agreements, and our existing customers renew their term licenses, agreements for cloud services and maintenance and support agreements when the contract term expires. Our customers have no obligation to renew their term licenses, agreements for cloud services or maintenance and support agreements with us after the terms have expired. Our customers  renewal rates may decline or fluctuate as a result of a number of factors, including their satisfaction or dissatisfaction with our offerings, our pricing, the effects of economic conditions, competitive offerings or alterations or reductions in our customers  spending levels. If our customers do not renew their agreements with us or renew on terms less favorable to us, our revenues may decline. 
    
  If we do not effectively expand, train and manage changes to our sales force, we may be unable to add new customers or increase sales to our existing customers, and our revenue growth and business could be adversely affected. 
    
  We continue to be substantially dependent on our sales force to effectively execute our sales strategies to obtain new customers and to drive additional use cases and adoption among our existing customers. We believe that there is significant competition for sales personnel with the skills and technical knowledge that we require. Our ability to achieve significant revenue growth will depend, in large part, on our success in recruiting, training and retaining sufficient numbers of sales personnel to support our growth. New hires require significant training and may take a significant amount of time before they achieve full productivity. Our recent hires and planned hires may not become productive as quickly as we expect, and we may be unable to hire or retain sufficient numbers of qualified individuals in the markets where we do business or plan to do business. In addition, as we continue to grow rapidly, a large percentage of our sales force is new to the company and our offerings. As our sales strategies evolve, additional training for new hires and our existing team may be required for our sales force to successfully execute on those strategies. We periodically adjust our sales organization as part of our efforts to optimize our sales operations to grow revenue. If we have not structured our sales organization or compensation for our sales organization properly, if we fail to make changes in a timely fashion or do not effectively manage changes, our revenue growth could be adversely affected. Our growth creates additional challenges and risks with respect to attracting, integrating and retaining qualified employees, particularly sales personnel. If we are unable to hire and train sufficient numbers of effective sales personnel, or the sales personnel are not successful in obtaining new customers or increasing sales to our existing customer base, our business will be adversely affected. 
    
  Our sales cycle is long and unpredictable, particularly with respect to large customers, and our sales efforts require considerable time and expense. 
    
  Our operating results may fluctuate, in part, because of the resource intensive nature of our sales efforts, the length and variability of the sales cycle of our offerings and the short-term difficulty in adjusting our operating expenses. Our operating results depend in part on sales to large customers. The length of our sales cycle, from initial evaluation to delivery of and payment for the software license, varies substantially from customer to customer. In addition, the introduction of Splunk Cloud has generated interest from our customers who are also considering purchasing and deploying Splunk Enterprise on-premises. In some cases, our customers may wish to consider a combination of these offerings, potentially further slowing our sales cycle. Our sales cycle can extend to more than a year for certain customers, particularly large customers. It is difficult to predict exactly when, or even if, we will make a sale with a potential customer or if a user of a trial version of one of our offerings will upgrade to the paid version of that offering. As a result, large individual sales have, in some cases, occurred in quarters subsequent to those we anticipated, or have not occurred at all. The loss or delay of one or more large transactions in a quarter could impact our operating results for that quarter and any future quarters for which revenues from that transaction is delayed. As a result of these factors, it is difficult for us to forecast our revenues accurately in any quarter. Because a substantial portion of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term, our operating results will suffer if revenues fall below our expectations in a particular quarter, which could cause the price of our common stock to decline. 
    
  Our international sales and operations subject us to additional risks and challenges that can adversely affect our business operations and financial results. 
    
  During the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018  , we derived approximately   26%   of our total revenues from customers outside the United States, and we are continuing to expand our international operations as part of our growth strategy. We currently have sales personnel and sales and support operations in the United States and certain countries around the world. To the extent that we experience difficulties in recruiting, training, managing, or retaining non-U.S. staff, and specifically sales management and sales personnel staff, we may experience difficulties in sales productivity in, or market penetration of, non-U.S. markets. Additionally, our sales organization outside the United States is substantially smaller than our sales organization in the United States, and we rely heavily on our sales channel for non-U.S. sales. Our ability to convince customers to expand  
  
   19 

     Table of Contents  

their use of our offerings or renew their maintenance and support agreements with us is directly correlated to our direct engagement with the customer. To the extent we are unable to engage with non-U.S. customers effectively with our limited sales force, professional services and support capacity or our indirect sales model, we may be unable to grow sales to existing customers to the same degree we have experienced in the United States. 
    
  Our international operations subject us to a variety of risks and challenges, including: 

increased management, travel, infrastructure and legal compliance costs associated with having multiple international operations; 

reliance on channel partners; 

longer payment cycles and difficulties in collecting accounts receivable or satisfying revenue recognition criteria, especially in emerging markets; 

increased financial accounting and reporting burdens and complexities; 

general economic conditions in each country or region; 

economic and political uncertainty around the world, such as the uncertainty regarding U.S. foreign and domestic policy and the United Kingdom s referendum in June 2016 in which voters approved an exit from the European Union ( EU ), commonly referred to as  Brexit  

compliance with multiple and changing foreign laws and regulations, including those governing employment, tax, privacy and data protection, data transfer and the risks and costs of non-compliance with such laws and regulations; 

compliance with laws and regulations for foreign operations, including the United States Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, the United Kingdom Bribery Act, import and export control laws, tariffs, trade barriers, economic sanctions and other regulatory or contractual limitations on our ability to sell our offerings in certain foreign markets, and the risks and costs of non-compliance, including as a result of any changes in trade relations or restrictions; 

heightened risks of unfair or corrupt business practices in certain geographies and of improper or fraudulent sales arrangements that may impact financial results and result in restatements of financial statements and irregularities in financial statements; 

fluctuations in currency exchange rates and the related effect on our financial results; 

difficulties in repatriating or transferring funds from or converting currencies in certain countries; 

the need for localized software and licensing programs; 

reduced protection for intellectual property rights in some countries and practical difficulties of enforcing intellectual property and contract rights abroad; and 

compliance with the laws of numerous foreign taxing jurisdictions and overlapping of different tax regimes. 
       
  Any of these risks could adversely affect our international operations, reduce our international revenues or increase our operating costs, adversely affecting our business operations, financial results and growth prospects. 
    
  In addition, compliance with laws and regulations applicable to our international operations increases our cost of doing business in foreign jurisdictions. We may be unable to keep current with changes in foreign government requirements and laws as they change from time to time. Failure to comply with these regulations could have adverse effects on our business. In many foreign countries, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or United States regulations applicable to us. In addition, although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and policies, there can be no assurance that all of our employees, contractors, channel partners and agents will comply with these laws and policies. Violations of laws or key control policies by our employees, contractors, channel partners or agents could result in delays in revenue recognition, financial reporting misstatements, fines, penalties, or the prohibition of the importation or exportation of our offerings and could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. 
  
   20 

     Table of Contents  

If we are unable to maintain successful relationships with our channel partners, and to help our channel partners enhance their ability to independently sell and deploy our offerings, our business operations, financial results and growth prospects could be adversely affected. 
    
  In addition to our direct sales force, we use indirect channel partners, such as distributors and resellers, to license, provide professional services and support our offerings. We derive a portion of our revenues from sales of our offerings through our channel partners, particularly in the Europe, Middle East and Africa, or EMEA, and Asia Pacific, or APAC, regions and for sales to government agencies. We expect that sales through channel partners in all regions will continue to grow as a portion of our revenues for the foreseeable future. As changes in our channel strategy are implemented, including potentially emphasizing partner-sourced transactions, results from sales through our channel partners may be adversely affected. 
    
  Our agreements with our channel partners are generally non-exclusive, meaning our channel partners may offer customers the products of several different companies, including products that compete with ours. If our channel partners do not effectively market and sell our offerings, choose to use greater efforts to market and sell their own products or those of our competitors, or fail to meet the needs of our customers, our ability to grow our business and sell our offerings may be adversely affected. Our channel partners may cease marketing our offerings with limited or no notice and with little or no penalty. The loss of a substantial number of our channel partners, our possible inability to replace them, or the failure to recruit additional channel partners could materially and adversely affect our results of operations. In addition, sales by channel partners are more likely than direct sales to involve collectability concerns, in particular sales by our channel partners in developing markets, and accordingly, variations in the mix between revenues attributable to sales by channel partners and revenues attributable to direct sales may result in fluctuations in our operating results. 
    
  Our ability to achieve revenue growth in the future will depend in part on our success in maintaining successful relationships with our channel partners, and to help our channel partners enhance their ability to independently sell and deploy our offerings. In order to achieve these objectives, we may be required to adjust our incentives, pricing or discount programs for our channel partners, which could adversely affect our operating results. If we are unable to maintain our relationships with these channel partners, or otherwise develop and expand our indirect distribution channel, our business, results of operations, financial condition or cash flows could be adversely affected. 
    
  Incorrect or improper implementation or use of our software could result in customer dissatisfaction, customer data loss or corruption and negatively affect our business, operations, financial results and growth prospects. 
    
  Our software is deployed in a wide variety of technology environments. Increasingly, our software has been deployed in large scale, complex technology environments, and we believe our future success will depend on our ability to increase sales of our software licenses for use in such deployments. We often must assist our customers in achieving successful implementations for large, complex deployments. If we or our customers are unable to implement our software successfully, are unable to do so in a timely manner or if an improper implementation or change in system configuration results in errors or loss of data, customer perceptions of our company may be impaired, our reputation and brand may suffer, and customers may choose not to increase their use of our offerings. In addition, our software imposes server load and index storage requirements for implementation. If our customers do not have the server load capacity or the storage capacity required, they may not be able to effectively implement and use our software and, therefore, may not choose to increase their use of our offerings. 
    
  Our customers and third-party partners may need training in the proper use of and the variety of benefits that can be derived from our software to maximize its potential. If our software is not implemented or used correctly or as intended, inadequate performance, errors, data loss or corruption may result. Because our customers rely on our software and maintenance and support services to manage a wide range of operations, the incorrect or improper implementation or use of our software, our failure to train customers on how to efficiently and effectively use our software, or our failure to provide maintenance services to our customers, may result in negative publicity or legal claims against us. Also, as we continue to expand our customer base, any failure by us to properly provide these services will likely result in lost opportunities for follow-on sales of our offerings. 
    
  If we or our third-party service providers experience a security breach or unauthorized parties otherwise obtain access to our customers' data, our data, or our cloud services, our offerings may be perceived as not being secure, our reputation may be harmed, demand for our offerings may be reduced, and we may incur significant liabilities. 
    
  Our offerings involve the storage and transmission of data, and security breaches could result in the loss of this information, litigation, indemnity obligations and other liability. We may become the target of cyber-attacks by third parties seeking unauthorized access to our data or users' data or to disrupt our ability to provide service. While we have taken steps to  
  
   21 

     Table of Contents  

protect the confidential information that we have access to, including confidential information we may obtain through our customer support services or customer usage of our cloud services, our security measures or those of our third-party service providers could be breached or we could suffer data loss. Computer malware, viruses, social engineering (predominantly spear phishing attacks), and general hacking have become more prevalent in our industry, particularly against cloud services. In the first quarter of fiscal 2019, we took corrective action against an attacker who utilized compromised credentials to create and delete compute infrastructure in the Splunk Cloud environment. In addition, we do not directly control content that customers store in our offerings. If customers use our offerings for the transmission or storage of personally identifiable information and our security measures are or are believed to have been breached as a result of third-party action, employee error, malfeasance or otherwise, our reputation could be damaged, our business may suffer, and we could incur significant liability.  
    
  We also process, store and transmit our own data as part of our business and operations. This data may include personally identifiable, confidential or proprietary information. There can be no assurance that any security measures that we or our third-party service providers have implemented will be effective against current or future security threats. While we have developed systems and processes to protect the integrity, confidentiality and security of our data, our security measures or those of our third-party service providers could fail and result in unauthorized access to or disclosure, modification, misuse, loss or destruction of such data.  
    
  Because there are many different security breach techniques and such techniques continue to evolve, we may be unable to anticipate attempted security breaches and implement adequate preventative measures. Third parties may also conduct attacks designed to temporarily deny customers access to our cloud services. Any security breach or other security incident, or the perception that one has occurred, could result in a loss of customer confidence in the security of our offerings and damage to our brand, reduce the demand for our offerings, disrupt normal business operations, require us to spend material resources to investigate or correct the breach, expose us to legal liabilities, including litigation, regulatory enforcement, and indemnity obligations, and adversely affect our revenues and operating results. These risks may increase as we continue to grow the number and scale of our cloud services, and process, store, and transmit increasingly large amounts of data. 
    
  We use third-party technology and systems for a variety of reasons, including, without limitation, encryption and authentication technology, employee email, content delivery to customers, back-office support, credit card processing and other functions. Although we have developed systems and processes that are designed to protect customer information and prevent data loss and other security breaches, including systems and processes designed to reduce the impact of a security breach at a third-party vendor, such measures cannot provide absolute security. 
    
  Interruptions or performance problems associated with our technology and infrastructure, and our reliance on Software-as-a-Service ("SaaS") technologies from third parties, may adversely affect our business operations and financial results. 
    
  Our continued growth depends in part on the ability of our existing and potential customers to use and access our website or our cloud services in order to download our on-premises software or encrypted access keys for our software within an acceptable amount of time. We have experienced, and may in the future experience, website and cloud service disruptions, storage failures, outages and other performance problems due to a variety of factors, including infrastructure changes, human or software errors, capacity constraints due to an overwhelming number of users accessing our website and services simultaneously, unauthorized access, denial of service, security or ransomware attacks. In some instances, we may not be able to identify the cause or causes of these website or service performance problems within an acceptable period of time. It may become increasingly difficult to maintain and improve our website and service performance, especially during peak usage times and as our offerings become more complex and our user traffic increases. If our website or cloud services are unavailable or if our users are unable to download our software or encrypted access keys within a reasonable amount of time or at all, our business would be negatively affected. We expect to continue to make significant investments to maintain and improve website and service performance and to enable rapid releases of new features and apps for our offerings. To the extent that we do not effectively address capacity constraints, upgrade our systems as needed and continually develop our technology and network architecture to accommodate actual and anticipated changes in technology, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. 
    
  In addition, we rely heavily on hosted SaaS technologies from third parties in order to operate critical functions of our business, including enterprise resource planning services and customer relationship management services. Further, our cloud services, such as Splunk Cloud, are hosted exclusively by third parties. We currently offer a 100% uptime service level agreement ( SLA ) for Splunk Cloud. If any of these services fail or become unavailable due to extended outages, interruptions or because they are no longer available on commercially reasonable terms or prices, or if we are unable to deliver 100% uptime under our SLAs, our revenues could be reduced, our reputation could be damaged, we could be exposed to legal liability, expenses could increase, our ability to manage our finances could be interrupted and our processes for managing sales of our  
  
   22 

     Table of Contents  

offerings and supporting our customers could be impaired until equivalent services, if available, are identified, obtained and implemented, all of which could adversely affect our business.  
    
  Our systems and third-party systems upon which we rely are also vulnerable to damage or interruption from catastrophic occurrences such as earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, criminal acts, sabotage, other intentional acts of vandalism and misconduct, geopolitical events and similar events. Our United States corporate offices and certain of the facilities we lease to house our computer and telecommunications equipment are located in the San Francisco Bay Area, a region known for seismic activity. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster or other unanticipated problems at our and our third parties  hosting facilities could result in interruptions, performance problems or failure of our infrastructure. 
    
  Splunk Cloud, as well as cloud services for other products, are relatively new offerings, require costly and continual infrastructure investments, and market adoption of these cloud services could adversely affect our business.  
    
  A cloud-based model of software deployment is one in which a software provider typically licenses an application to customers for use as a service on demand through web browser technologies. Delivering software under a cloud-based model results in higher costs and expenses when compared to sales of on-premises licenses for similar functionality. In recent years, companies have begun to expect that key software, such as customer relationship management and enterprise resource planning systems, be provided through a cloud-based model. Many of our offerings are now made available in the cloud as well as on-premises. Customers can sign up for Splunk Cloud and other services and avoid the need to provision, deploy and manage internal infrastructure. In order to provide Splunk Cloud and other services via a cloud-based deployment, we have made and will continue to make capital investments and incur substantial costs to implement and maintain this alternative business model, which could negatively affect our financial results. In addition, as we look to deliver more cloud services, we are making significant technology investments to deliver new capabilities and advance our software to deliver cloud-native customer experiences.  If we are not successful with returns from these investments, our financial results, business model and competitive position could suffer. We expect that over time the percentage of our revenue attributable to our cloud services will increase. If our cloud services, in particular Splunk Cloud, do not garner widespread market adoption, or there is a reduction in demand for cloud-based services caused by a lack of customer acceptance, technological challenges, weakening economic or political conditions, security or privacy concerns, inability to properly manage such services, competing technologies and products, decreases in corporate spending or otherwise, our financial results, business model and competitive position could suffer. If we are unable to decrease the cost of providing our cloud services, our gross margins may decrease and negatively impact our overall financial results. Transitioning to a cloud-based model also impacts the way we recognize revenues, which may affect our operating results and could have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. 
    
  Even with these investments and costs, the cloud-based business model for Splunk Cloud and other services may not be successful, as some customers may desire only on-premises licenses to our offerings. Our cloud services may raise concerns among customers, including concerns regarding changes to pricing models, service availability, scalability, ability to use customer-developed apps, information security of a cloud-based service and hosted data and access to data while offline or once a subscription has expired. Market acceptance of our cloud services can be affected by a variety of factors, including but not limited to: security, reliability, performance, terms of service, support terms, customer preference, community engagement, customer concerns with entrusting a third party to store and manage their data, public concerns regarding data privacy and the enactment of restrictive laws or regulations in the affected jurisdictions. If we or other providers of cloud-based services experience security incidents or breaches, loss of customer data, disruptions in delivery of services, network outages, disruptions in availability of the internet, unauthorized access or other problems, the market for cloud-based services as a whole, including Splunk Cloud, may be negatively affected. Moreover, sales of Splunk Cloud and other services could displace sales of our on-premises software licenses. Alternatively, subscriptions to Splunk Cloud and other services that exceed our expectations may unexpectedly increase our costs, lower our margins, lower our profits or increase our losses and otherwise negatively affect our projected financial results.  
    
  We are subject to governmental export and import controls that could impair our ability to compete in international markets or subject us to liability if we violate the controls. 
    
  Our offerings are subject to United States export controls, and we incorporate encryption technology into certain of our offerings. These encryption offerings and the underlying technology may be exported outside of the United States only with the required export authorizations, including by license. 
    
  Furthermore, our activities are subject to the U.S. economic sanctions laws and regulations that prohibit the shipment of certain products and services without the required export authorizations or export to countries, governments, and persons targeted by U.S. sanctions. While we take precautions to prevent our offerings from being exported in violation of these laws,  
  
   23 

     Table of Contents  

including obtaining authorizations for our encryption offerings, implementing IP address blocking and screenings against U.S. Government and international lists of restricted and prohibited persons, we cannot guarantee that the precautions we take will prevent violations of export control and sanctions laws. For example, downloads of our free software may have in the past been made in potential violation of the export control and economic sanctions laws. 
    
  We also note that if our channel partners fail to obtain appropriate import, export or re-export licenses or permits, we may also be adversely affected, through reputational harm as well as other negative consequences including government investigations and penalties. We presently incorporate export control compliance requirements in our channel partner agreements. Complying with export control and sanctions regulations for a particular sale may be time-consuming and may result in the delay or loss of sales opportunities. 
    
  Violations of U.S. sanctions or export control laws can result in fines or penalties, including civil penalties of up to $250,000 or twice the value of the transaction, whichever is greater, per violation. In the event of criminal knowing and willful violations of these laws, fines of up to $1 million per violation and possible incarceration for responsible employees and managers could be imposed. 
    
  Also, various countries, in addition to the United States, regulate the import and export of certain encryption and other technology, including import and export permitting and licensing requirements, and have enacted laws that could limit our ability to distribute our offerings or could limit our customers  ability to implement our offerings in those countries. Changes in our offerings or future changes in export and import regulations may create delays in the introduction of our offerings in international markets, prevent our customers with international operations from deploying our offerings globally or, in some cases, prevent the export or import of our offerings to certain countries, governments, or persons altogether. Any change in export or import regulations, economic sanctions or related legislation, or change in the countries, governments, persons or technologies targeted by such regulations, could result in decreased use of our offerings by, or in our decreased ability to export or sell our offerings to, existing or potential customers with international operations. Any decreased use of our offerings or limitation on our ability to export or sell our offerings would likely adversely affect our business operations and financial results. 
    
  If our new offerings and product enhancements do not achieve sufficient market acceptance, our financial results and competitive position will suffer. 
    
  We spend substantial amounts of time and money to research and develop new offerings and enhanced versions of our existing offerings to incorporate additional features, improve functionality or other enhancements in order to meet our customers  rapidly evolving demands. In addition, we continue to invest in solutions that can be deployed on top of our platform to target specific use cases and to cultivate our community of application developers and users. When we develop a new or enhanced version of an existing offering, we typically incur expenses and expend resources upfront to market, promote and sell the new offering. Therefore, when we develop and introduce new or enhanced offerings, they must achieve high levels of market acceptance in order to justify the amount of our investment in developing and bringing them to market. For example, if our cloud services such as Splunk Cloud do not garner widespread market adoption and implementation, our financial results and competitive position could suffer.  
    
  Further, we may make changes to our offerings that our customers do not like, find useful or agree with. We may also discontinue certain features, begin to charge for certain features that are currently free or increase fees for any of our features or usage of our offerings. 
    
  Our new offerings or product enhancements and changes to our existing offerings could fail to attain sufficient market acceptance for many reasons, including: 

our failure to predict market demand accurately in terms of product functionality and to supply offerings that meet this demand in a timely fashion; 

defects, errors or failures; 

negative publicity about their performance or effectiveness; 

delays in releasing to the market our new offerings or enhancements to our existing offerings to the market; 

introduction or anticipated introduction of competing products by our competitors; 

24 

     Table of Contents  

poor business conditions for our end-customers, causing them to delay IT purchases; and 

reluctance of customers to purchase products incorporating open source software. 
       
  If our new offerings or enhancements and changes do not achieve adequate acceptance in the market, our competitive position will be impaired, and our revenues will be diminished. The adverse effect on our financial results may be particularly acute because of the significant research, development, marketing, sales and other expenses we will have incurred in connection with the new offerings or enhancements. 
    
  Our business depends, in part, on sales to the public sector, and significant changes in the contracting or fiscal policies of the public sector could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
    
  We derive a portion of our revenues from contracts with federal, state, local and foreign governments, and we believe that the success and growth of our business will continue to depend on our successful procurement of government contracts. Factors that could impede our ability to maintain or increase the amount of revenues derived from government contracts, include: 

changes in fiscal or contracting policies; 

decreases in available government funding; 

changes in government programs or applicable requirements; 

the adoption of new laws or regulations or changes to existing laws or regulations; 

noncompliance with contract provisions or government procurement or other applicable regulations; 

ability to obtain or maintain any required facility clearances or security clearances for our employees; 

potential delays or changes in the government appropriations or other funding authorization processes; and 

delays in the payment of our invoices by government payment offices. 
       
  The occurrence of any of the foregoing could cause governments and governmental agencies to delay or refrain from purchasing licenses of our offerings in the future or otherwise have an adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. 
    
  Failure to comply with laws or regulations applicable to our business could cause us to lose customers in the public sector, subject us to fines and penalties, or negatively impact our ability to contract with the public sector. 
    
  We must comply with laws and regulations relating to the formation, administration and performance of contracts with the public sector, including United States federal, state and local governmental bodies, which affect how our channel partners and how we do business with governmental agencies. These laws and regulations may impose added costs on our business, and failure to comply with these or other applicable regulations and requirements, including non-compliance in the past, could lead to claims for damages or other relief, penalties, termination of contracts, loss of exclusive rights in our intellectual property, and temporary suspension or permanent debarment from government contracting. Any such damages, penalties, disruptions or limitations in our ability to do business with the public sector could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. 
    
  Real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our offerings could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. 
    
  Because our offerings are complex, undetected errors, failures or bugs may occur, especially when new offerings, versions or updates are released. Our on-premises software is often installed and used in large-scale computing environments with different operating systems, system management software, and equipment and networking configurations, which may cause errors or failures of our software or other aspects of the computing environment into which it is deployed. In addition, deployment of our software into complicated, large-scale computing environments may expose undetected errors, failures or bugs in our software. Despite testing by us, errors, failures or bugs may not be found in our offerings until they are released to our customers. In the past, we have discovered errors, failures and bugs in some of our offerings after their introduction. Real or perceived errors, failures or bugs in our offerings could result in negative publicity, loss of or delay in market acceptance of  
  
   25 

     Table of Contents  

our offerings, loss of competitive position or claims by customers for losses sustained by them. In such an event, we may be required, or may choose, for customer relations or other reasons, to expend additional resources in order to help correct the problem. 
    
  In addition, if an actual or perceived failure of our software occurs in a customer s deployment or in our cloud services, regardless of whether the failure is attributable to our software, the market perception of the effectiveness of our offerings could be adversely affected. Alleviating any of these problems could require significant expenditures of our capital and other resources and could cause interruptions, delays or cessation of our licensing, which could cause us to lose existing or potential customers and could adversely affect our financial results and growth prospects. 
    
  Failure to protect our intellectual property rights could adversely affect our business and our brand. 
    
  Our success and ability to compete depends, in part, on our ability to protect our trade secrets, trademarks, copyrights, patents, proprietary methods and technologies and other intellectual property that we develop under intellectual property laws of the United States and other jurisdictions outside of the United States so that we can prevent others from using our inventions and proprietary information and property. We generally rely on copyright, trade secret and trademark laws, trade secret protection and confidentiality or license agreements with our employees, consultants, vendors, customers, partners and others and generally limit access to and distribution of our proprietary information in order to protect our intellectual property rights. If we fail to protect our intellectual property rights adequately, our competitors might gain access to our technology or use of our brand, and our business might be adversely affected. However, defending our intellectual property rights might entail significant expenses. Any of our patent rights, copyrights, trademarks or other intellectual property rights may be challenged by others or invalidated through administrative process or litigation. Our issued patents and any patents issued in the future may not provide us with any competitive advantages, and our patent applications may never be granted. Additionally, the process of obtaining patent protection is expensive and time-consuming, and we may not be able to file and prosecute all necessary or desirable patent applications, or we may not be able to do so at a reasonable cost or in a timely manner. Even if issued, there can be no assurance that these patents will adequately protect our intellectual property, as the legal standards relating to the infringement, validity, enforceability and scope of protection of patent and other intellectual property rights are complex and often uncertain. 
    
  Any patents that are issued may subsequently be invalidated or otherwise limited, allowing other companies to develop offerings that compete with ours, which could adversely affect our competitive business position, business prospects and financial condition. In addition, issuance of a patent does not guarantee that we have a right to practice the patented invention. Patent applications in the United States are typically not published until 18 months after filing or, in some cases, not at all, and publications of discoveries in industry-related literature lag behind actual discoveries. We cannot be certain that we were the first to use the inventions claimed in our issued patents or pending patent applications or otherwise used in our offerings, that we were the first to file patent applications, or that third parties do not have blocking patents that could be used to prevent us from marketing or practicing our offerings or technology. Effective patent, trademark, copyright and trade secret protection may not be available to us in every country in which our offerings are available. The laws of some foreign countries may not be as protective of intellectual property rights as those in the United States (in particular, some foreign jurisdictions do not permit patent protection for software), and mechanisms for enforcement of intellectual property rights may be inadequate. Additional uncertainty may result from recent and future changes to intellectual property legislation in the United States (including the  America Invents Act ) and other countries and from interpretations of the intellectual property laws of the United States and other countries by applicable courts and agencies. Accordingly, despite our efforts, we may be unable to prevent third parties from infringing upon or misappropriating our intellectual property. 
    
  We rely in part on trade secrets, proprietary know-how and other confidential information to maintain our competitive position. Although we endeavor to enter into non-disclosure agreements with our employees, licensees and others who may have access to this information, we cannot assure that these agreements or other steps we have taken will prevent unauthorized use, disclosure or reverse engineering of our technology. In addition, the laws of some foreign countries do not protect our proprietary rights to as great an extent as the laws of the United States, and many foreign countries do not enforce these laws as diligently as government agencies and private parties in the United States. Moreover, third parties may independently develop technologies or products that compete with ours, and we may be unable to prevent this competition. 
    
  We might be required to spend significant resources to monitor and protect our intellectual property rights. We may initiate claims or litigation against third parties for infringement of our proprietary rights or to establish the validity of our proprietary rights. Litigation also puts our patents at risk of being invalidated or interpreted narrowly. Additionally, we may provoke third parties to assert counterclaims against us. We may not prevail in any lawsuits that we initiate, and the damages or other remedies awarded, if any, may not be adequate to compensate us for the harm suffered. Any litigation, whether or not it is  
  
   26 

     Table of Contents  

resolved in our favor, could result in significant expense to us and divert the efforts of our technical and management personnel, which may adversely affect our business operations or financial results. 
    
  We have been, and may in the future be, subject to intellectual property rights claims by third parties, which are extremely costly to defend, could require us to pay significant damages and could limit our ability to use certain technologies. 
    
  Companies in the software and technology industries, including some of our current and potential competitors, own large numbers of patents, copyrights, trademarks and trade secrets and frequently enter into litigation based on allegations of infringement or other violations of intellectual property rights. In addition, many of these companies have the capability to dedicate substantially greater resources to enforce their intellectual property rights and to defend claims that may be brought against them. The litigation may involve patent holding companies or other adverse patent owners that have no relevant product revenues and against which our patents may therefore provide little or no deterrence. From time-to-time, third parties, including certain of these leading companies, have asserted and may assert patent, copyright, trademark or other intellectual property rights against us, our channel partners, our technology partners or our customers. We have received, and may in the future receive, notices that claim we have misappropriated, misused, or infringed other parties  intellectual property rights, and, to the extent we gain greater market visibility, we face a higher risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims, which is not uncommon with respect to the enterprise software market.  
    
  There may be third-party intellectual property rights, including issued or pending patents, that cover significant aspects of our technologies or business methods. We may be exposed to increased risk of being the subject of intellectual property infringement claims as a result of acquisitions, as, among other things, we have a lower level of visibility into the development process with respect to such technology or the care taken to safeguard against infringement risks. Any intellectual property claims, with or without merit, could be very time-consuming, could be expensive to settle or litigate and could divert our management s attention and other resources. These claims could also subject us to significant liability for damages, potentially including treble damages if we are found to have willfully infringed patents or copyrights. These claims could also result in our having to stop using technology found to be in violation of a third party s rights. We might be required to seek a license for the intellectual property, which may not be available on reasonable terms or at all. Even if a license were available, we could be required to pay significant royalties, which would increase our operating expenses. As a result, we may be required to develop alternative non-infringing technology, which could require significant effort and expense. If we cannot license or develop technology for any infringing aspect of our business, we would be forced to limit or stop sales of our offerings and may be unable to compete effectively. Any of these results would adversely affect our business operations and financial results. 
     
  We offer free trials, trial-to-buy and other next-generation go-to-market strategies, and we may not be able to realize the benefits of these strategies. 
    
  We offer trial version licenses, including online sandboxes, of certain of our offerings to users free of charge as part of our overall strategy of developing the market for offerings that provides operational intelligence and promoting additional penetration of our offerings in the markets in which we compete. Some users never convert from the trial version to the paid version. In fiscal 2017, we introduced free development-test licenses for certain commercial customers as part of our strategy to help enable such customers to expand their use of our offerings to additional use cases. In fiscal 2018, we began offering our cloud services through a cloud vendor marketplace. To the extent that users of our trial version do not become paying customers, our current customers do not expand their use of our offerings beyond the current predominant use cases, or we are unsuccessful in building effective go-to-market strategies for our offerings, we will not realize the intended benefits of these marketing strategies and our ability to grow our revenues will be adversely affected. 
    
  If we are not able to maintain and enhance our brand, our business and operating results may be adversely affected. 
    
  We believe that maintaining and enhancing the  Splunk  brand identity is critical to our relationships with our customers and channel partners and to our ability to attract new customers and channel partners. The successful promotion of our brand will depend largely upon our marketing efforts, our ability to continue to offer high-quality offerings and our ability to successfully differentiate our offerings from those of our competitors. Our brand promotion activities may not be successful or yield increased revenues. In addition, independent industry analysts often provide reviews of our offerings, as well as those of our competitors, and perception of our offerings in the marketplace may be significantly influenced by these reviews. If these reviews are negative, or less positive as compared to those of our competitors  products and services, our brand may be adversely affected. 
    
  Moreover, it may be difficult to maintain and enhance our brand in connection with sales through channel or strategic partners. The promotion of our brand requires us to make substantial expenditures, and we anticipate that the expenditures will increase as our market becomes more competitive, as we expand into new markets and as more sales are generated through our  
  
   27 

     Table of Contents  

channel partners. To the extent that these activities yield increased revenues, these revenues may not offset the increased expenses we incur. If we do not successfully maintain and enhance our brand, our business may not grow, we may have reduced pricing power relative to competitors with stronger brands, and we could lose customers and channel partners, all of which would adversely affect our business operations and financial results. 
    
  Our future performance depends in part on proper use of our community website, Splunkbase, expansion of our developer ecosystem, and support from third-party software developers. 
    
  Our offerings enable third-party software developers to build apps on top of our platform. We operate a community website, Splunkbase, for sharing these third-party apps, including add-ons and extensions. While we expect Splunkbase to support our sales and marketing efforts, it also presents certain risks to our business, including: 

third-party developers may not continue developing or supporting the software apps that they share on Splunkbase; 

we cannot guarantee that if and as we change the architecture of our products and services, third-party developers will evolve their existing software apps to be compatible or that they will participate in the creation of new apps utilizing the new architecture;  

we cannot provide any assurance that these apps meet the same quality and security standards that we apply to our own development efforts, and, to the extent they contain bugs, defects or security vulnerabilities, they may create disruptions in our customers  use of our offerings or negatively affect our brand; 

we do not currently provide support for software apps developed by third-party software developers, and users may be left without support and potentially disappointed by their experience of using our offerings if the third-party software developers do not provide support for these apps; 

these third-party software developers may not possess the appropriate intellectual property rights to develop and share their apps or otherwise may not have assessed legal and compliance risks related to distributing their apps; and 

some of these developers may use the insight they gain using our offerings and from documentation publicly available on our website to develop competing products. 
       
  Many of these risks are not within our control to prevent, and our brand may be damaged if these apps, add-ons and extensions do not perform to our customers  satisfaction and that dissatisfaction is attributed to us. 
    
  Our use of  open source  software could negatively affect our ability to sell our offerings and subject us to possible litigation, and our participation in open source projects may impose unanticipated burdens or restrictions. 
    
  We use open source software in our offerings and expect to continue to use open source software in the future. We may face claims from others alleging breach of license requirements or infringement of intellectual property rights in what we believe to be licensed open source software, or seeking to enforce the terms of an open source license, including by demanding release of our proprietary source code that was developed using, incorporating or linked with such open source software or by requiring that we apply open source licenses to our proprietary applications. These claims could also result in litigation, require us to purchase a costly license or require us to devote additional research and development resources to change our offerings, any of which would have a negative effect on our business and operating results. In addition, if the license terms for the open source code change, we may be forced to re-engineer our offerings or incur additional costs to find alternative tools. In addition to risks related to license requirements, usage of open source software can lead to greater risks than use of third-party commercial software, as open source licensors generally do not provide warranties, support, indemnity or assurance of title or controls on origin of the software. Likewise, some open source projects have known security and other vulnerabilities and architectural instabilities and are provided on an  as-is  basis. Additionally, because any software source code we contribute to open source projects is publicly available, our ability to protect our intellectual property rights with respect to such software source code may be limited or lost entirely, and we may be unable to prevent our competitors or others from using such contributed software source code. Many of these risks associated with usage of open source software, such as the lack of warranties, support or assurances of title, cannot be eliminated, and could, if not properly addressed, negatively affect the performance of our offerings and our business. While we have established processes to help alleviate these risks, we cannot assure that these measures will reduce or completely shield us from these risks. 

28 

     Table of Contents  

We are subject to a number of legal requirements, contractual obligations and industry standards regarding security, data protection, and privacy and any failure to comply with these requirements, obligations or standards could have an adverse effect on our reputation, business, financial condition and operating results. 
    
  Privacy and data information security have become a significant issue in the United States and in many other countries where we have employees and operations and where we offer licenses or cloud subscriptions to our offerings. The regulatory framework for privacy and personal information security issues worldwide is rapidly evolving and is likely to remain uncertain for the foreseeable future. The U.S. federal and various state and foreign government bodies and agencies have adopted or are considering adopting laws and regulations limiting, or laws and regulations regarding the collection, distribution, use, disclosure, storage, and security of personal information. Some of these requirements include obligations of companies to notify individuals of security breaches involving particular personal information, which could result from breaches experienced by us or our service providers. Even though we may have contractual protections with our service providers, a security breach could impact our reputation, harm our customer confidence, hurt our sales and expansion into new markets or cause us to lose existing customers, and could expose us to potential liability or require us to expend significant resources on data security and in responding to such breach.  
    
  Internationally, virtually every jurisdiction in which we operate has established its own data security and privacy legal framework with which we or our customers must comply. Laws and regulations in these jurisdictions apply broadly to the collection, use, storage, disclosure and security of data that identifies or may be used to identify or locate an individual, such as names, email addresses and, in some jurisdictions, Internet Protocol ( IP ) addresses. These laws and regulations often are more restrictive than those in the United States and are rapidly evolving. For example, a new EU data protection regime, the General Data Protection Regulation ( GDPR ) becomes effective on May 25, 2018, and we self-certified to the U.S.-EU Privacy Shield developed by the U.S. Department of Commerce and the European Commission to provide U.S. companies with a valid data transfer mechanism under EU law to permit them to transfer personal data from the European Union to the United States. The U.S.-EU Privacy Shield is subject to annual review, has faced challenges in European courts, and may be challenged, suspended or invalidated. Complying with the GDPR or other laws, regulations, or other obligations relating to privacy, data protection, or information security may cause us to incur substantial operational costs or require us to modify our data handling practices. Non-compliance could result in proceedings against us by governmental entities or others, could result in substantial fines or other liability, and may otherwise adversely impact our business, financial condition and operating results. 
    
  In addition to government regulation, privacy advocates and industry groups may propose new and different self-regulatory standards that may legally or contractually apply to us. We also expect that there will continue to be new proposed laws and regulations concerning privacy, data protection and information security, and we cannot yet determine the impact such future laws, regulations and standards may have on our business. New laws, amendments to or re-interpretations of existing laws and regulations, industry standards, contractual obligations and other obligations may require us to incur additional costs and restrict our business operations. Because the interpretation and application of laws and other obligations relating to privacy and data protection are still uncertain, it is possible that these laws and other obligations may be interpreted and applied in a manner that is inconsistent with our existing data management practices or the features of our offerings. If so, in addition to the possibility of fines, lawsuits and other claims, we could be required to fundamentally change our business activities and practices or modify our offerings, which could have an adverse effect on our business. We may be unable to make such changes and modifications in a commercially reasonable manner or at all, and our ability to develop new offerings and features could be limited. Any inability to adequately address privacy concerns, even if unfounded, or comply with applicable privacy or data protection laws, regulations and policies, could result in additional cost and liability to us, damage our reputation, inhibit sales and adversely affect our business. 
    
  Furthermore, the costs of compliance with, and other burdens imposed by, the laws, regulations, and policies that are applicable to the businesses of our customers may limit the use and adoption of, and reduce the overall demand for, our offerings. For example, as a service provider to our customers, we may collect and use personally identifiable information, including protected health information, which may subject us to a number of data protection, security, privacy and other government- and industry-specific requirements, including those that require companies to notify individuals of data security incidents involving certain types of personal data, such as the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act of 1996 ( HIPAA ). Privacy and personal information security concerns, whether valid or not valid, may inhibit market adoption of our offerings particularly in certain industries and foreign countries. 
    
  If we are unable to attract and retain leadership and key personnel, our business could be adversely affected. 
    
  We depend on the continued contributions of our leadership, senior management and other key personnel, the loss of whom could adversely affect our business. With any change in leadership, there is a risk to organizational effectiveness and  
  
   29 

     Table of Contents  

employee retention as well as the potential for disruption to our business. All of our executive officers and key employees are at-will employees, which means they may terminate their employment relationship with us at any time. We do not maintain a key-person life insurance policy on any of our officers or other employees. 
    
  Our future success also depends on our ability to identify, attract and retain highly skilled technical, managerial, finance and other personnel, particularly in our sales and marketing, research and development, general and administrative, and professional service departments. We face intense competition for qualified individuals from numerous software and other technology companies. 
    
  In addition, competition for qualified personnel, particularly software engineers, is particularly intense in the San Francisco Bay Area, where our headquarters are located. We may incur significant costs to attract and retain them, and we may lose new employees to our competitors or other technology companies before we realize the benefit of our investment in recruiting and training them. As we move into new geographies, we will need to attract and recruit skilled personnel in those areas. If we are unable to attract and retain suitably qualified individuals who are capable of meeting our growing technical, operational and managerial requirements, on a timely basis or at all, our business will be adversely affected. 
    
  Volatility or lack of performance in our stock price may also affect our ability to attract and retain our key employees. Many of our senior management personnel and other key employees have become, or will soon become, vested in a substantial amount of stock, restricted stock units or stock options. Employees may be more likely to leave us if the shares they own or the shares underlying their vested restricted stock units or options have significantly appreciated in value relative to the original purchase prices of the shares or the exercise prices of the options, or, conversely, if the exercise prices of the options that they hold are significantly above the market price of our common stock. If we are unable to retain our employees, or if we need to increase our compensation expenses to retain our employees, our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows would be adversely affected. 
    
  We have in the past made and may in the future make acquisitions that could prove difficult to integrate and/or adversely affect our business operations and financial results. 
    
  From time to time, we may choose to expand by making acquisitions that could be material to our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. Our ability as an organization to successfully acquire and integrate technologies or businesses is unproven. Acquisitions involve many risks, including the following: 

an acquisition may negatively affect our financial results because it may require us to incur charges or assume substantial debt or other liabilities, may cause adverse tax consequences or unfavorable accounting treatment, may expose us to claims and disputes by third parties, including intellectual property claims and disputes, or may not generate sufficient financial return to offset additional costs and expenses related to the acquisition; 

potential goodwill impairment charges related to acquisitions;  

costs and potential difficulties associated with the requirement to test and assimilate the internal control processes of the acquired business; 

we may encounter difficulties or unforeseen expenditures in integrating the business, technologies, products, personnel or operations of any company that we acquire, particularly if key personnel of the acquired company decide not to work for us or if we are unable to retain key personnel; 

we may not realize the expected benefits of the acquisition; 

an acquisition may disrupt our ongoing business, divert resources, increase our expenses and distract our management; 

an acquisition may result in a delay or reduction of customer purchases for both us and the company acquired due to customer uncertainty about continuity and effectiveness of service from either company; 

the potential impact on relationships with existing customers, vendors and distributors as business partners as a result of acquiring another company or business that competes with or otherwise is incompatible with those existing relationships; 

the potential that our due diligence of the acquired company or business does not identify significant problems or liabilities, or that we underestimate the costs and effects of identified liabilities;  
     
   30 

     Table of Contents  

exposure to litigation or other claims in connection with, or inheritance of claims or litigation risk as a result of, an acquisition, including but not limited to claims from former employees, customers or other third parties, which may differ from or be more significant than the risks our business faces;  

we may encounter difficulties in, or may be unable to, successfully sell any acquired products; 

an acquisition may involve the entry into geographic or business markets in which we have little or no prior experience or where competitors have stronger market positions; 

an acquisition may require us to comply with additional laws and regulations or result in liabilities resulting from the acquired company s pre-acquisition failure to comply with applicable laws; 

our use of cash to pay for an acquisition would limit other potential uses for our cash; 

if we incur debt to fund such acquisition, such debt may subject us to material restrictions on our ability to conduct our business as well as financial maintenance covenants; and 

to the extent that we issue a significant amount of equity securities in connection with future acquisitions, existing stockholders may be diluted and earnings per share may decrease. 
       
  The occurrence of any of these risks could have a material adverse effect on our business operations and financial results. 
    
  If poor advice or misinformation is spread through our community website, Splunk Answers, users of our offerings may experience unsatisfactory results from using our offerings, which could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to grow our business. 
    
  We host Splunk Answers for sharing knowledge about how to perform certain functions with our offerings. Our users are increasingly turning to Splunk Answers for support in connection with their use of our offerings. We do not review or test the information that non-Splunk employees post on Splunk Answers to ensure its accuracy or efficacy in resolving technical issues. Therefore, we cannot ensure that all the information listed on Splunk Answers is accurate or that it will not adversely affect the performance of our offerings. Furthermore, users who post such information on Splunk Answers may not have adequate rights to the information to share it publicly, and we could be the subject of intellectual property claims based on our hosting of such information. If poor advice or misinformation is spread among users of Splunk Answers, our customers or other users of our offerings may experience unsatisfactory results from using our offerings, which could adversely affect our reputation and our ability to grow our business. 
    
  Prolonged economic uncertainties or downturns could materially adversely affect our business. 
    
  Prolonged economic downturns or uncertainty could adversely affect our business operations or financial results. Negative conditions in the general economy in either the United States or abroad, including conditions resulting from financial and credit market fluctuations, changes in economic policy, trade uncertainty and terrorist attacks on the United States, Europe, Asia Pacific or elsewhere, could cause a decrease in corporate spending on enterprise software in general and negatively affect the rate of growth of our business. 
    
  These conditions could make it extremely difficult for our customers and us to forecast and plan future business activities accurately, and they could cause our customers to reevaluate their decision to purchase our offerings, which could delay and lengthen our sales cycles or result in cancellations of planned purchases. Furthermore, during challenging economic times our customers may face issues in gaining timely access to sufficient credit, which could result in an impairment of their ability to make timely payments to us. If that were to occur, we may be required to increase our allowance for doubtful accounts, which would adversely affect our financial results. 
    
  We have a significant number of customers in the business services, energy, financial services, healthcare and pharmaceuticals, technology, manufacturing, media and entertainment, online services, retail, telecommunications and travel and transportation industries. A substantial downturn in any of these industries may cause firms to react to worsening conditions by reducing their capital expenditures in general or by specifically reducing their spending on information technology. Customers in these industries may delay or cancel information technology projects or seek to lower their costs by renegotiating vendor contracts. To the extent purchases of our offerings are perceived by customers and potential customers to  
  
   31 

     Table of Contents  

be discretionary, our revenues may be disproportionately affected by delays or reductions in general information technology spending. Also, customers may choose to develop in-house software as an alternative to using our offerings. Moreover, competitors may respond to market conditions by lowering prices and attempting to lure away our customers. In addition, the increased pace of consolidation in certain industries may result in reduced overall spending on our offerings. 
    
  We cannot predict the timing, strength or duration of any economic slowdown, instability or recovery, generally or within any particular industry or geography. If the economic conditions of the general economy or industries in which we operate worsen from present levels, our business operations and financial results could be adversely affected. 
    
  We may require additional capital to support business growth, and this capital might not be available on acceptable terms, if at all. 
    
  We intend to continue to make investments to support our business growth and may require additional funds to respond to business challenges, including the need to develop new features or enhance our offerings, improve our operating infrastructure or acquire complementary businesses and technologies. Accordingly, we may need to engage in equity or debt financings to secure additional funds. If we raise additional funds through future issuances of equity or convertible debt securities, our existing stockholders could suffer significant dilution, and any new equity securities we issue could have rights, preferences and privileges superior to those of holders of our common stock. Any debt financing that we may secure in the future could involve restrictive covenants relating to our capital raising activities and other financial and operational matters, which may make it more difficult for us to obtain additional capital and to pursue business opportunities, including potential acquisitions, or otherwise reduce operational flexibility. We may not be able to obtain additional financing on terms favorable to us, if at all. If we are unable to obtain adequate financing or financing on terms satisfactory to us when we require it, our ability to continue to support our business growth and to respond to business challenges could be significantly impaired, and our business may be adversely affected. 
    
  If currency exchange rates fluctuate substantially in the future, our financial results, which are reported in U.S. dollars, could be adversely affected. 
    
  As we continue to expand our international operations, we become more exposed to the effects of fluctuations in currency exchange rates. Although our sales contracts are denominated in U.S. dollars, and therefore our revenues are not subject to foreign currency risk, a strengthening of the U.S. dollar could increase the real cost of our offerings to our customers outside of the United States, adversely affecting our business operations and financial results. We incur expenses for employee compensation and other operating expenses at our non-U.S. locations in the local currency. Fluctuations in the exchange rates between the U.S. dollar and other currencies could result in the dollar equivalent of such expenses being higher. This could have a negative impact on our reported operating results. Although we engage in limited hedging strategies, any such strategies, such as forward contracts, options and foreign exchange swaps, related to transaction exposures that we may implement to mitigate this risk may not eliminate our exposure to foreign exchange fluctuations. 
    
  Changes in U.S. tax laws could materially impact our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. 
    
  Legislation commonly referred to as the 2017 Tax Cuts and Jobs Act, or the Act, was enacted on December 22, 2017, and significantly changes how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. The U.S. Treasury Department has broad authority to issue regulations and interpretative guidance that may significantly impact how we will apply the law and affect our results of operations. The Act requires complex computations not previously provided for in U.S. tax law. As such, the application of accounting guidance for such items is currently uncertain. We have provided a provisional estimate of the effect of the Act in our consolidated financial statements. As additional regulatory guidance is issued by the applicable taxing authorities and accounting treatment is clarified, we may make adjustments to our provisional estimate which may materially affect our business, cash flow, results of operations or financial conditions. 
    
  Our ability to use our net operating losses to offset future taxable income may be subject to certain limitations. 
    
  In general, under Section 382 of the United States Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended, or the Code, a corporation that undergoes an ownership change is subject to limitations on its ability to utilize its pre-change net operating losses, or NOLs, to offset future taxable income. If our existing NOLs are subject to limitations arising from previous ownership changes, our ability to utilize NOLs could be limited by Section 382 of the Code. Future changes in our stock ownership, some of which are outside of our control, could result in an ownership change under Section 382 of the Code. Furthermore, our ability to utilize NOLs of companies that we may acquire in the future may be subject to limitations. There is also a risk that either under prior regulations or other unforeseen reasons, our prior year NOLs could expire or otherwise be  
  
   32 

     Table of Contents  

unavailable to offset future income tax liabilities. For these reasons, we may not be able to utilize a portion of these NOLs reflected on our balance sheet, even if we attain profitability. 
    
  Taxing authorities may successfully assert that we should have collected or in the future should collect sales and use, value added or similar taxes, and we could be subject to liability with respect to past or future sales, which could adversely affect our financial results. 
    
  We do not collect sales and use, value added and similar taxes in all jurisdictions in which we have sales, based on our belief that such taxes are not applicable. Sales and use, value added and similar tax laws and rates vary greatly by jurisdiction. Certain jurisdictions in which we do not collect such taxes may assert that such taxes are applicable, which could result in tax assessments, penalties and interest, and we may be required to collect such taxes in the future. Such tax assessments, penalties and interest or future requirements may adversely affect our financial results. 
    
  Our international operations subject us to potentially adverse tax consequences. 
    
  We generally conduct our international operations through wholly owned subsidiaries, branches and representative offices and report our taxable income in various jurisdictions worldwide based upon our business operations in those jurisdictions. We are in the process of organizing our corporate structure to more closely align with the international nature of our business activities. Our intercompany relationships are subject to complex transfer pricing regulations administered by taxing authorities in various jurisdictions. The relevant taxing authorities may disagree with our determinations as to the income and expenses attributable to specific jurisdictions. If such a disagreement were to occur, and our position were not sustained, we could be required to pay additional taxes, interest and penalties, which could result in one-time tax charges, higher effective tax rates, reduced cash flows and lower overall profitability of our operations. We believe that our financial statements reflect adequate reserves to cover such a contingency, but there can be no assurances in that regard. 
    
  We could be subject to additional tax liabilities. 
    
  We are subject to federal, state and local taxes in the United States and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in evaluating our tax positions and our worldwide provision for taxes. During the ordinary course of business, there are many activities and transactions for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We previously discovered that we have not complied with various tax rules and regulations in certain foreign jurisdictions. We are working to resolve these matters. In addition, our tax obligations and effective tax rates could be adversely affected by changes in the relevant tax, accounting and other laws, regulations, principles and interpretations, including those relating to income tax nexus, by our earnings being lower than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have lower statutory rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions where we have higher statutory rates, by changes in foreign currency exchange rates, or by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities. We may be audited in various jurisdictions, and such jurisdictions may assess additional taxes against us. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of any tax audits or litigation could be materially different from our historical tax provisions and accruals, which could have a material adverse effect on our operating results or cash flows in the period or periods for which a determination is made. 
    
  Our financial results may be adversely affected by changes in accounting principles applicable to us. 
    
  Generally accepted accounting principles in the United States ( U.S. GAAP ) are subject to interpretation by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ), the SEC, and other various bodies formed to promulgate and interpret appropriate accounting principles. For example, in May 2014, the FASB issued accounting standards update No. 2014-09 (Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes nearly all existing revenue recognition guidance under U.S. GAAP. We are required to implement this new revenue standard in the first quarter of fiscal 2019. The adoption of this new standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements, including the way we account for arrangements involving a term license, deferred revenue and sales commissions. In addition, some deferred revenue, primarily from arrangements involving term licenses, will never be recognized as revenue upon adoption of the new revenue standard and instead will be part of the cumulative effect adjustment within accumulated deficit. See Part II, Item 8. Financial Statements and Supplementary Data - Note 1 for information regarding the effect of new accounting pronouncements on our consolidated financial statements. These or other changes in accounting principles could adversely affect our financial results. Any difficulties in implementing these pronouncements could cause us to fail to meet our financial reporting obligations, which could result in regulatory discipline and harm investors  confidence in us. 
    
  Our stock price has been volatile, may continue to be volatile and may decline regardless of our financial performance.  

33 

     Table of Contents  

The trading prices of the securities of technology companies have been highly volatile. The market price of our common stock has fluctuated significantly and may continue to fluctuate significantly in response to numerous factors, many of which are beyond our control, including: 

actual or anticipated fluctuations in our financial results; 

the financial projections we provide to the public, any changes in these projections or our failure to meet or exceed these projections; 

failure of securities analysts to initiate or maintain coverage of our company, changes in financial estimates by any securities analysts who follow our company, or our failure to meet these estimates or the expectations of investors; 

ratings changes by any securities analysts who follow our company; 

announcements by us or our competitors of significant technical innovations, acquisitions, strategic partnerships, joint ventures or capital commitments; 

changes in operating performance and stock market valuations of other technology companies generally, or those in our industry in particular; 

price and volume fluctuations in certain categories of companies or the overall stock market, including as a result of trends in the global economy; 

any major change in our board of directors or management; 

lawsuits threatened or filed against us;  

cybersecurity attacks or incidents; and 

other events or factors, including those resulting from war, incidents of terrorism or responses to these events. 
       
  In addition, the stock markets, and in particular the market on which our common stock is listed, have experienced extreme price and volume fluctuations that have affected and continue to affect the market prices of equity securities of many technology companies. Stock prices of many technology companies have fluctuated in a manner unrelated or disproportionate to the financial performance of those companies. In the past, stockholders have instituted securities class action litigation following periods of market volatility. If we were to become involved in securities litigation, it could subject us to substantial costs, divert resources and the attention of management from our business and adversely affect our business, results of operations, financial condition and cash flows. 
    
  If securities or industry analysts publish negative reports about our business, or cease coverage of our company, our share price and trading volume could decline. 
    
  The trading market for our common stock depends in part on the research and reports that securities or industry analysts publish about us or our business, our market and our competitors. We do not have any control over these analysts. If one or more of the analysts who cover us downgrade our shares or change their opinion of our shares, our share price would likely decline. If one or more of these analysts cease coverage of our company or fail to regularly publish reports on us, we could lose visibility in the financial markets, which could cause our share price or trading volume to decline. 
    
  The requirements of being a public company and a growing and increasingly complex organization may strain our resources, divert management s attention and affect our ability to attract and retain executive management and qualified board members. 
    
  As a public company, we are subject to the reporting requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, or the Exchange Act, the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, the Dodd-Frank Act, the listing requirements of The NASDAQ Stock Market and other applicable securities rules and regulations. Compliance with these rules and regulations has increased our legal and financial compliance costs, made some activities more difficult, time-consuming or costly and increased and will continue to increase demand on our systems and resources. The Exchange Act requires, among other things, that we file annual, quarterly and current reports with respect to our business and operating results. The Sarbanes-Oxley Act requires, among other things, that we maintain effective disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting. In order to maintain and,  
  
   34 

     Table of Contents  

if required, improve our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting to meet this standard, significant resources and management oversight may be required. As a result, management s attention may be diverted from other business concerns, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Although we have already hired additional employees to comply with these requirements, we may need to hire more employees in the future or engage outside consultants, which will increase our costs and expenses. 
    
  In addition, changing laws, regulations, standards and practices relating to corporate governance and public disclosure are creating uncertainty for public companies, increasing legal and financial compliance costs and making some activities more time consuming. These laws, regulations, standards and practices are subject to varying interpretations, in many cases due to their lack of specificity, and, as a result, their application in practice may evolve over time as regulatory and governing bodies provide new guidance or as market practices develop. This could result in continuing uncertainty regarding compliance matters and higher costs necessitated by ongoing revisions to disclosure and governance practices. We will continue to invest resources to comply with evolving laws, regulations and standards and keeping abreast of current practices, and this investment may result in increased general and administrative expenses and a diversion of management s time and attention from revenue-generating activities to compliance and corporate governance activities. If our efforts to comply with new laws, regulations and standards differ from the activities intended by regulatory or governing bodies due to ambiguities related to their application and practice, regulatory authorities may initiate legal proceedings against us and our business may be adversely affected. 
    
  Our business has become more visible and complex as we grow as an organization, which we believe may result in threatened or actual litigation, including by competitors and other third parties. We are also from time to time involved in various litigation matters and claims, including regulatory proceedings, administrative proceedings, governmental investigations, and contract disputes, as they relate to our products, services, business and operations. We may also face employment-related litigation, including claims under local, state, federal and foreign labor laws. If such claims are successful, our business operations and financial results could be adversely affected, and even if the claims do not result in litigation or are resolved in our favor, these claims, and the time and resources necessary to resolve them, could divert the resources of our management and adversely affect our business operations and financial results. From time to time, public companies are subject to campaigns by investors seeking to increase short-term stockholder value through actions such as financial restructuring, increased debt, special dividends, stock repurchases, management changes or sales of assets or the entire company. If stockholders attempt to effect such changes or acquire control over us, responding to such actions would be costly, time-consuming and disruptive, which could adversely affect our results of operations, financial results and the value of our common stock. These factors could also make it more difficult for us to attract and retain qualified employees, executive officers and members of our board of directors. 
    
  We are obligated to develop and maintain proper and effective internal control over financial reporting. These internal controls may not be determined to be effective, which may adversely affect investor confidence in our company and, as a result, the value of our common stock. 
    
  We are required, pursuant to Section 404 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act, to furnish a report by management on, among other things, the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting. This assessment includes disclosure of any material weaknesses identified by our management in our internal control over financial reporting. We are also required to have our independent registered public accounting firm issue an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting on an annual basis. During the evaluation and testing process, if we identify one or more material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting, we will be unable to assert that our internal controls are effective. 
    
  If we are unable to assert that our internal control over financial reporting is effective, or if our independent registered public accounting firm is unable to express an opinion on the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting, we could lose investor confidence in the accuracy and completeness of our financial reports, which would cause the price of our common stock to decline, and we may be subject to investigation or sanctions by the SEC. 
    
  We do not intend to pay dividends for the foreseeable future. 
    
  We have never declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock and do not intend to pay any cash dividends in the foreseeable future. We anticipate that we will retain all of our future earnings for use in the development of our business and for general corporate purposes. Any determination to pay dividends in the future will be at the discretion of our board of directors. Accordingly, price appreciation of our common stock, which may never occur, may be the only way our stockholders realize any future gains on their investments. 

35 

     Table of Contents  

Anti-takeover provisions in our charter documents and under Delaware law could make an acquisition of our company more difficult, limit attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management and limit the market price of our common stock. 
    
  Provisions in our certificate of incorporation and bylaws may have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control or changes in our management. Our certificate of incorporation and bylaws include provisions that: 

authorize our board of directors to issue, without further action by the stockholders, shares of undesignated preferred stock with terms, rights and preferences determined by our board of directors; 

require that any action to be taken by our stockholders be effected at a duly called annual or special meeting and not by written consent; 

specify that special meetings of our stockholders can be called only by our board of directors, the Chairman of our board of directors, or our Chief Executive Officer; 

establish an advance notice procedure for stockholder proposals to be brought before an annual meeting, including proposed nominations of persons for election to our board of directors; 

establish that our board of directors is divided into three classes, Class I, Class II and Class III, with each class serving three-year staggered terms; 

prohibit cumulative voting in the election of directors; 

provide that our directors may be removed only for cause; 

provide that vacancies on our board of directors may be filled only by a majority of directors then in office, even though less than a quorum; and 

require the approval of our board of directors or the holders of a supermajority of our outstanding shares of capital stock to amend our bylaws and certain provisions of our certificate of incorporation. 
       
  These provisions may frustrate or prevent any attempts by our stockholders to replace or remove our current management by making it more difficult for stockholders to replace members of our board of directors, which is responsible for appointing the members of our management. In addition, because we are incorporated in Delaware, we are governed by the provisions of Section 203 of the Delaware General Corporation Law, which generally prohibits a Delaware corporation from engaging in any of a broad range of business combinations with any  interested  stockholder for a period of three years following the date on which the stockholder became an  interested  stockholder.  

Item 1B.  Unresolved Staff Comments 
    
    None. 

Item 2.  Properties 
    
    Our corporate headquarters at 270 Brannan Street occupy approximately 182,000 square feet under a lease that expires in February 2024. Additionally, we have an office lease for approximately 235,000 square feet located at 3098 Olsen Drive, San Jose, California that expires in August 2027 for our business operations, sales, support and product development. We lease smaller regional offices for our business operations, sales, support and some product development in various locations throughout the United States. Our foreign subsidiaries lease office space for their operations including local sales, support and some product development. While we believe our facilities are sufficient and suitable for the operations of our business today, we are in the process of adding new facilities and expanding our existing facilities as we add employees and expand into additional markets. 
  
   36 

Table of Contents  

Item 3.  Legal Proceedings 
    
  The information set forth under Legal Proceedings in Note 3 contained in the  Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  is incorporated herein by reference. 

Item 4.  Mine Safety Disclosures 
    
    Not applicable. 
  
   37 

Table of Contents  

PART II 

Item 5.  Market for Registrant s Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities 
    
  Stock Price and Dividends 
    
  Our common stock, $0.001 par value, began trading on the NASDAQ Global Select Market on April 19, 2012, where its prices are quoted under the symbol  SPLK.  As of   January 31, 2018  , there were 18 holders of record of our common stock. Because many of our shares of common stock are held by brokers and other institutions on behalf of stockholders, we are unable to estimate the total number of beneficial holders represented by these record holders. 
  The following table sets forth the reported high and low sales prices of our common stock for the periods indicated, as regularly quoted on the NASDAQ Global Select Market: 

We have never declared or paid, and do not anticipate declaring or paying in the foreseeable future, any cash dividends on our capital stock. Any future determination as to the declaration and payment of dividends, if any, will be at the discretion of our board of directors, subject to applicable laws and will depend on then existing conditions, including our financial condition, operating results, contractual restrictions, capital requirements, business prospects, and other factors our board of directors may deem relevant.  
    
  Securities Authorized for Issuance Under Equity Compensation Plans 
    
  See Item 12,  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters  for information regarding securities authorized for issuance. 
    
  Stock Performance Graph 
  This chart compares the cumulative total return on our common stock with that of the NASDAQ Composite index and the NASDAQ Computer index. The chart assumes $100 was invested on April 19, 2012, the date our stock began trading, in our common stock, the NASDAQ Composite index and the NASDAQ Computer index. The peer group indices utilize the same methods of presentation and assumptions for the total return calculation as does Splunk and the NASDAQ Composite index. All companies in the peer group index are weighted in accordance with their market capitalizations. 
  
   38 

     Table of Contents  

l 
    Splunk Inc. 
    n 
    NASDAQ Composite 
      
    NASDAQ Computer 

39 

Table of Contents  

Item 6.  Selected Financial Data 
    
  The following selected consolidated financial data should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes thereto and with Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations, which are included elsewhere in this Form 10-K. The consolidated statement of operations data for fiscal   2018  ,   2017  , and   2016   and the selected consolidated balance sheet data as of   January 31, 2018   and   2017   are derived from, and are qualified by reference to, the audited consolidated financial statements and are included in this Form 10-K. The consolidated statement of operations data for fiscal   2015  , and   2014   and the consolidated balance sheet data as of   January 31, 2016  ,   2015   and   2014   are derived from audited consolidated financial statements, which are not included in this Form 10-K. 

40 

     Table of Contents  

(1) 
    Amounts include stock-based compensation expense as follows: 

Item 7.  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
                   The following discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations should be read in conjunction with our consolidated financial statements and related notes appearing elsewhere in this Annual Report on Form 10-K. This discussion contains forward-looking statements based upon current expectations that involve risks and uncertainties. Our actual results may differ materially from those anticipated in these forward-looking statements as a result of various factors, including those set forth under  Risk Factors  included in Part I, Item 1A or in other parts of this report. 
  Overview 
  Splunk provides innovative software solutions that enable organizations to gain real-time operational intelligence by harnessing the value of their data. Our offerings enable users to collect, index, search, explore, monitor, correlate and analyze data regardless of format or source. Our offerings address large and diverse data sets commonly referred to as big data and are specifically tailored for machine data. Machine data is produced by nearly every software application and electronic device across an organization and contains a definitive, time-stamped record of various activities, such as transactions, customer and user behavior, and security threats. Beyond an organization's traditional information technology ( IT ) and security infrastructure, data from the Industrial Internet, including industrial control systems, sensors, SCADA systems, networks, manufacturing systems, smart meters and the Internet of Things ( IoT ) which includes consumer-oriented systems, such as electronic wearables, mobile devices, automobiles and medical devices are also continuously generating machine data. Our offerings help organizations gain the value contained in machine data by delivering real-time information to enable operational decision making.  
    
  We believe the market for products that provide operational intelligence presents a substantial opportunity as data grows in volume and diversity, creating new risks, opportunities and challenges for organizations. Since our inception, we have invested a substantial amount of resources developing our offerings to address this market, specifically with respect to machine data. 
    
  Our offerings are designed to deliver rapid return-on-investment for our customers. They generally do not require customization, long deployment cycles or extensive professional services commonly associated with traditional enterprise software applications. Prospective users can get started with our free online sandboxes that enable our customers to immediately try and experience Splunk offerings. Users that prefer to deploy the software on-premises can take advantage of our free 60-day trial of Splunk Enterprise, which converts into a limited free perpetual license of up to 500 megabytes of data per day. Paying users can sign up for Splunk Cloud and avoid the need to provision, deploy and manage internal infrastructure.  
  
   41 

     Table of Contents  

Alternatively, they can simply download and install the software, typically in a matter of hours, to connect to their relevant machine data sources. Customers can also provision a compute instance on AWS via a pre-built Amazon Machine Image, which delivers a pre-configured virtual machine instance with our Splunk Enterprise software. In fiscal 2017, we introduced free development-test licenses for certain commercial customers, allowing customers to explore new data and use cases in a non-production environment without incurring additional fees. We also offer support, training and professional services to our customers to assist in the deployment of our software. 
    
  For Splunk Enterprise, we base our license fees on the estimated daily data indexing capacity our customers require. A substantial portion of our license revenues consist of revenues from perpetual licenses, whereby we generally recognize the license fee portion of these arrangements upfront. As a result, the timing of when we enter into large perpetual licenses may lead to fluctuations in our revenues and operating results because our expenses are largely fixed in the short-term. Additionally, we license our software under term licenses, which are generally recognized ratably over the contract term. From time to time, we also enter into transactions that are designed to enable broad adoption of our software within an enterprise, referred to as enterprise adoption agreements. These agreements often include provisions that require revenue deferral and recognition over time. 
    
  Splunk Cloud delivers the benefits of Splunk Enterprise deployed and managed reliably, and scalably as a service. Splunk Cloud customers pay an annual subscription fee based on the combination of the volume of data indexed per day and the length of the data retention period. Splunk Light provides log search and analysis that is designed, priced and packaged for small IT environments, where a single-server log analytics solution is sufficient. Splunk Enterprise Security addresses emerging security threats and security information and event management ("SIEM") use cases through monitoring, alerts and analytics. Splunk IT Service Intelligence monitors the health and key performance indicators of critical IT and business services. Splunk User Behavior Analytics detects cyber-attacks and insider threats using data science, machine learning and advanced correlation. 
    
  We intend to continue investing for long-term growth. We have invested and intend to continue to invest heavily in product development to deliver additional features and performance enhancements, deployment models and solutions that can address new end markets. During fiscal 2018 we released new versions of existing offerings such as Splunk Enterprise and Splunk Cloud. In addition, we expect to continue to aggressively expand our sales and marketing organizations to market and sell our software both in the United States and internationally.  
    
  We have utilized and expect to continue to utilize acquisitions to contribute to our long-term growth objectives. During fiscal 2018 we completed a number of acquisitions, including SignalSense Inc., which develops cloud-based data collection and breach detection solutions that leverage machine learning, and Rocana Inc., which develops analytics solutions for the IT market.  
    
  Our goal is to make our software the platform for delivering operational intelligence and real-time business insights from machine data. The key elements of our growth strategy are to: 

Extend our technological capabilities. 

Continue to expand our direct and indirect sales organization, including our channel relationships, to increase our sales capacity and enable greater market presence. 

Further penetrate our existing customer base and drive enterprise-wide adoption. 

Enhance our value proposition through a focus on solutions which address core and expanded use cases. 

Grow our user communities and partner ecosystem to increase awareness of our brand, target new use cases, drive operational leverage and deliver more targeted, higher value solutions. 

Continue to deliver a rich developer environment to enable rapid development of enterprise applications that leverage machine data and the Splunk platform. 
       
  We believe the factors that will influence our ability to achieve our goals include, among other things, our ability to deliver new offerings as well as additional product functionality; acquire new customers across geographies and industries; cultivate incremental sales from our existing customers by driving increased use of our software within organizations; provide additional solutions that leverage our core machine data platform to help organizations understand and realize the value of their machine data in specific end markets and use cases; add additional original equipment manufacturer ("OEM") and strategic  
  
   42 

     Table of Contents  

relationships to enable new sales channels for our software as well as extend our integration with third-party products; help software developers leverage the functionality of our machine data platform through software development kits ("SDKs") and application programming interfaces ("APIs"); and successfully integrate acquired businesses and technologies. 
    
  Financial Summary 
    
  For the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , our total revenues were   $1,270.8 million   and   $950.0 million  , respectively. For the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , approximately   26%   and   24%   of our total revenues, respectively, were derived from customers located outside the United States. Our customers and end-users represent the public sector and a wide variety of industries, including financial services, manufacturing, retail and technology, among others. As of   January 31, 2018  , we had over   15,000   customers, including over   85   of the Fortune 100 companies. 
    
  For the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , our GAAP operating loss was   $254.3 million   and   $343.8 million  , respectively. Our non-GAAP operating income was   $117.2 million   and   $59.4 million   for fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , respectively. 
    
  For the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , our GAAP net loss was   $259.1 million   and   $355.2 million  , respectively. Our non-GAAP net income was   $89.2 million   and   $48.4 million   for fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , respectively. 
    
  Our quarterly results reflect seasonality in the sale of our offerings. Historically, a pattern of increased license sales in the fourth fiscal quarter as a result of industry buying patterns has positively impacted sales activity in that period, which can result in lower sequential revenues in the following first fiscal quarter. However, adoption of the new revenue recognition standard may affect our revenue trends. Our gross margins and operating losses have been affected by these historical trends because the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short-term. The majority of our expenses are personnel-related and include salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and incentive-based compensation plan expenses. As a result, we have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in the timing of expenses from period to period. 

Non-GAAP Financial Results 
    
  To supplement our consolidated financial statements, which are prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP, we provide investors with certain non-GAAP financial measures, including non-GAAP cost of revenues, non-GAAP gross margin, non-GAAP research and development expense, non-GAAP sales and marketing expense, non-GAAP general and administrative expense, non-GAAP operating income (loss), non-GAAP operating margin, non-GAAP net income (loss) and non-GAAP net income (loss) per share (collectively the  non-GAAP financial measures ). These non-GAAP financial measures exclude all or a combination of the following (as reflected in the following reconciliation tables): expenses related to stock-based compensation and related employer payroll tax, amortization of acquired intangible assets, adjustments related to a financing lease obligation, adjustments related to facility exits and acquisition-related adjustments, including the partial release of the valuation allowance due to acquisitions. The adjustments for the financing lease obligation are to reflect the expense we would have recorded if our build-to-suit lease arrangement had been deemed an operating lease instead of a financing lease and is calculated as the net of actual ground lease expense, depreciation and interest expense over estimated straight-line rent expense. The non-GAAP financial measures are also adjusted for our estimated tax rate on non-GAAP income (loss). To determine the annual non-GAAP tax rate, we evaluate a financial projection based on our non-GAAP results. The annual non-GAAP tax rate takes into account other factors including our current operating structure, our existing tax positions in various jurisdictions and key legislation in major jurisdictions where we operate. The annual non-GAAP tax rate applied to the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 was 27%. We will utilize this annual non-GAAP tax rate in fiscal 2018 and will provide updates to this rate on an annual basis, or more frequently if material changes occur. In addition, non-GAAP financial measures include free cash flow, which represents cash from operations less purchases of property and equipment, billings and cloud billings, which represents revenues plus the change in deferred revenue during the period. The presentation of the non-GAAP financial measures is not intended to be considered in isolation or as a substitute for, or superior to, the financial information prepared and presented in accordance with GAAP. We use these non-GAAP financial measures for financial and operational decision-making purposes and as a means to evaluate period-to-period comparisons. We believe that these non-GAAP financial measures provide useful information about our operating results, enhance the overall understanding of past financial performance and future prospects and allow for greater transparency with respect to key metrics used by management in our financial and operational decision making. In addition, these non-GAAP financial measures facilitate comparisons to competitors  operating results. 
    
  We exclude stock-based compensation expense because it is non-cash in nature and excluding this expense provides meaningful supplemental information regarding our operational performance and allows investors the ability to make more  
  
   43 

     Table of Contents  

meaningful comparisons between our operating results and those of other companies. We exclude employer payroll tax expense related to employee stock plans in order for investors to see the full effect that excluding that stock-based compensation expense had on our operating results. These expenses are tied to the exercise or vesting of underlying equity awards and the price of our common stock at the time of vesting or exercise, which may vary from period to period independent of the operating performance of our business. We also exclude amortization of acquired intangible assets, adjustments related to facility exits, acquisition-related costs, including the partial release of the valuation allowance due to acquisitions, and make adjustments related to a financing lease obligation from our non-GAAP financial measures because these are considered by management to be outside of our core operating results. Accordingly, we believe that excluding these expenses provides investors and management with greater visibility to the underlying performance of our business operations, facilitates comparison of our results with other periods and may also facilitate comparison with the results of other companies in our industry. We consider free cash flow to be a liquidity measure that provides useful information to management and investors about the amount of cash generated by the business that can be used for strategic opportunities, including investing in our business, making strategic acquisitions and strengthening our balance sheet. We consider billings to be a useful measure for management and investors because it provides visibility into our sales activity for a particular period, which is not necessarily reflected in our revenues given that we recognize term licenses and subscriptions for cloud services ratably. 
    
  There are limitations in using non-GAAP financial measures because the non-GAAP financial measures are not prepared in accordance with GAAP, may be different from non-GAAP financial measures used by our competitors and exclude expenses that may have a material impact upon our reported financial results. Further, stock-based compensation expense has been and will continue to be for the foreseeable future a significant recurring expense in our business and an important part of the compensation provided to our employees. The non-GAAP financial measures are meant to supplement and be viewed in conjunction with GAAP financial measures. 
    
  The following table reconciles our net cash provided by operating activities to free cash flow for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018  ,   2017   and   2016   (in thousands): 

The following table reconciles our GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures for the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018   (in thousands, except per share amounts). 

44 

     Table of Contents  

_________________ 
   (1)    GAAP net loss per share calculated based on 139,866 weighted-average shares of common stock. Non-GAAP net income per share calculated based on 144,862 diluted weighted-average shares of common stock, which includes 4,996 potentially dilutive shares related to employee stock awards. GAAP to non-GAAP net income (loss) per share is not reconciled due to the difference in the number of shares used to calculate basic and diluted weighted-average shares of common stock. 
   (2)    Includes $8.4 million of interest expense related to the financing lease obligation. 
   (3)    Represents the tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments based on the estimated annual effective tax rate of 27%. 
    
  The following table reconciles our GAAP to non-GAAP Financial Measures for the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2017   (in thousands, except per share amounts). 

_________________________ 
   (1)    GAAP net loss per share calculated based on 133,910 weighted-average shares of common stock. Non-GAAP net income per share calculated based on 137,409 diluted weighted-average shares of common stock, which includes 3,499 potentially dilutive shares related to employee stock awards. GAAP to non-GAAP net income (loss) per share is not reconciled due to the difference in the number of shares used to calculate basic and diluted weighted-average shares of common stock.  
   (2)    Includes $7.7 million of interest expense related to the financing lease obligation. 
   (3)    For consistency, prior year non-GAAP net loss has been adjusted to reflect the tax effect of the non-GAAP adjustments based on the annual effective tax rate of 21%. 
    
  Reconciliation of Total Billings 
    
  The following table reconciles our total revenues to billings for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017   (in thousands). 

Reconciliation of Total Cloud Billings 
    
  The following table reconciles our total Cloud revenues to Cloud billings for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017   (in thousands). 
  
   45 

     Table of Contents  

Components of Operating Results 
  Revenues 
    
  License revenues.    License revenues reflect the revenues recognized from sales of licenses to new customers and additional licenses to existing customers. We are focused on acquiring new customers and increasing revenues from our existing customers as they realize the value of our software by indexing higher volumes of machine data and expanding the use of our software through additional use cases and broader deployment within their organizations. A majority of our license revenues consists of revenues from perpetual licenses, under which we generally recognize the license fee portion of the arrangement upfront, assuming all revenue recognition criteria are satisfied. Customers can also purchase term license agreements, under which we recognize the license fee ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the term of the license. Due to the differing revenue recognition policies, shifts in the mix between transactions that are recognized upfront and those that are recognized ratably from quarter to quarter could produce substantial variation in revenues recognized even if our sales remain consistent. In addition, seasonal trends that contribute to increased sales activity in the fourth fiscal quarter often result in lower sequential revenues in the first fiscal quarter, and we expect this trend to continue. Comparing our revenues on a period-to-period basis may not be meaningful, and our past results should not be relied upon as an indication of our future performance. 
    
  Maintenance and services revenues.    Maintenance and services revenues consist of revenues from maintenance agreements and, to a lesser extent, professional services and training, as well as revenues from our cloud services. Typically, when purchasing a perpetual license, a customer also purchases one year of maintenance service for which we charge a percentage of the license fee. When a term license is purchased, maintenance service is typically bundled with the license for the term of the license period. Customers with maintenance agreements are entitled to receive support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they become available during the maintenance period. We recognize the revenues associated with maintenance agreements ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the associated maintenance period. In arrangements involving a term license, we recognize both the license and maintenance revenues over the contract period once all services have commenced. We have a professional services organization focused on helping our customers deploy our software in highly complex operational environments and train their personnel. We recognize the revenues associated with these professional services on a time and materials basis as we deliver the services or provide the training. We expect maintenance and services revenues to become a larger percentage of our total revenues as our installed customer base grows. We generally recognize the revenues associated with our cloud services ratably, on a straight-line basis, over the associated subscription term. 
    
  Professional services and training revenues as a percentage of total revenues were   9%   and   8%   for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , respectively. We have experienced continued growth in our professional services revenues primarily due to the deployment of our software with some customers that have large, highly complex IT environments. 
    
  Cost of Revenues 
    
  Cost of license revenues.    Cost of license revenues includes all direct costs to deliver our products, including salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and related expenses such as employer taxes, allocated overhead for facilities and IT and amortization of acquired intangible assets. We recognize these expenses as they are incurred. 
    
  Cost of maintenance and services revenues.    Cost of maintenance and services revenues includes salaries, benefits, stock-based compensation and related expenses such as employer taxes for our maintenance and services organization, allocated overhead for depreciation of equipment, facilities and IT, amortization of acquired intangible assets and third-party hosting fees related to our cloud services. We recognize expenses related to our maintenance and services organization as they are incurred.  
    
  Operating Expenses 

46 

     Table of Contents  

Our operating expenses are classified into three categories: research and development, sales and marketing and general and administrative. For each category, the largest component is personnel costs, which include salaries, employee benefit costs, bonuses, commissions as applicable, stock-based compensation and related expenses such as employer taxes. Operating expenses also include allocated overhead costs for depreciation of equipment, facilities and IT. Allocated costs for facilities include costs for compensation of our facilities personnel, leasehold improvements and rent. Our allocated costs for IT include costs for compensation of our IT personnel and costs associated with our IT infrastructure. Operating expenses are generally recognized as incurred. 
    
  Research and development.    Research and development expenses primarily consist of personnel and facility-related costs attributable to our research and development personnel. We have devoted our product development efforts primarily to enhancing the functionality and expanding the capabilities of our software and services. We expect that our research and development expenses will continue to increase, in absolute dollars, as we increase our research and development headcount to further strengthen and enhance our software and services and invest in the development of our solutions and apps. 
    
  Sales and marketing.    Sales and marketing expenses primarily consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our sales, marketing and business development personnel, commissions earned by our sales personnel and the cost of marketing and business development programs. We expect that sales and marketing expenses will continue to increase, in absolute dollars, as we continue to hire additional personnel and invest in marketing programs. 
    
  General and administrative.    General and administrative expenses primarily consist of personnel and facility-related costs for our executive, finance, legal, human resources and administrative personnel; our legal, accounting and other professional services fees; and other corporate expenses. We anticipate continuing to incur additional expenses due to growing our operations, including higher legal, corporate insurance and accounting expenses. 
    
  Interest and other income (expense), net 
    
  Interest and other income (expense), net consists primarily of foreign exchange gains and losses, interest income on our investments and cash and cash equivalents balances and changes in the fair value of forward exchange contracts. 
    
    Provision for income taxes 
    
  The provision for income taxes consists of federal, state and foreign income taxes. We recognize deferred tax assets and liabilities for the expected tax consequences of temporary differences between the tax basis of assets and liabilities and their reported amounts using enacted tax rates in effect for the year in which we expect the differences to reverse. We record a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred tax assets to the amount that we are more-likely-than-not to realize. Because of our history of U.S. net operating losses, we have established, in prior years, a full valuation allowance against potential future benefits for U.S. deferred tax assets including loss carry-forwards and research and development and other tax credits. We regularly assess the likelihood that our deferred income tax assets will be realized based on the realization guidance available. To the extent that we believe any amounts are not more-likely-than-not to be realized, we record a valuation allowance to reduce the deferred income tax assets. We regularly assess the need for the valuation allowance on our deferred tax assets, and to the extent that we determine that an adjustment is needed, such adjustment will be recorded in the period that the determination is made. 
  Critical Accounting Policies and Estimates  
  We prepare our consolidated financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles in the United States. The preparation of consolidated financial statements also requires us to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues, costs and expenses and related disclosures. We base our estimates on historical experience and on various other assumptions that we believe to be reasonable under the circumstances. Actual results could differ significantly from the estimates made by our management. To the extent that there are differences between our estimates and actual results, our future financial statement presentation, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows will be affected.  
    
  We believe that the assumptions and estimates associated with revenue recognition, share-based compensation, income taxes and business combinations have the greatest potential impact on our consolidated financial statements. Therefore, we consider these to be our critical accounting policies and estimates. Accordingly, we believe these are the most critical to fully understand and evaluate our financial condition and results of operations. For further information on all of our significant accounting policies, see Note 1 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  
   47 

Table of Contents  

Results of Operations 
  The following tables set forth our results of operations for the periods presented and as a percentage of our total revenues for those periods. The period-to-period comparison of financial results is not necessarily indicative of financial results to be achieved in future periods.   
 ______________________________ 
            (1)   
    Calculated as a percentage of the associated revenues. 
     
   48 

     Table of Contents  

Fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016    
  Revenues   

  Fiscal   2018   compared to fiscal   2017  .     The increase in license revenues of   $146.8 million   was primarily driven by increases in our total number of customers, sales to existing customers and an increase in the number of larger orders. For example, we had   2,338   and   1,942   orders greater than $100,000 for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , respectively. Our total number of Splunk customers increased from over   13,000   at   January 31, 2017   to over   15,000   at   January 31, 2018  . The increase in maintenance and services revenues of   $174.1 million   was due to increases in sales of our maintenance agreements resulting from the growth of our installed customer base, sales of our cloud services and sales of our professional services. 
  Fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016  .     The increase in license revenues of   $141.5 million   was primarily driven by increases in our total number of customers, sales to existing customers and an increase in the number of larger orders. For example, we had   1,942   and   1,447   orders greater than $100,000 for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2017   and   2016  , respectively. Our total number of Splunk customers increased from approximately 11,000 at   January 31, 2016   to over   13,000   at   January 31, 2017  . The increase in maintenance and services revenues of   $140.0 million   was due to increases in sales of maintenance agreements resulting from the growth of our installed customer base, sales of our cloud services and sales of our professional services. 
  Cost of Revenues and Gross Margin   

   (1)    Includes stock-based compensation expense: 

Fiscal   2018   compared to fiscal   2017  .     Total cost of revenues increased   $65.4 million   primarily due to a   $63.9 million   increase in cost of maintenance and services revenues. The increase in cost of maintenance and services revenues was primarily related to an increase of $30.0 million in salaries and benefits expense, which includes a $2.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount, an increase of $17.4 million in third-party hosting fees to support our cloud services, and an increase of $13.9 million related to third-party consulting services. The   $1.4 million   increase in cost of license  
  
   49 

     Table of Contents  

revenues was primarily due to an increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets. Maintenance and services gross margin increased primarily due to the growth and improved margins of our cloud business during fiscal 2018. Total gross margin decreased slightly due to maintenance and services revenues being a greater percentage of the overall revenue mix. 
    
  Fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016  .     Total cost of revenues increased $76.9 million primarily due to a $74.0 million increase in cost of maintenance and services revenues. The increase in cost of maintenance and services revenues was primarily related to an increase of $30.2 million related to third-party hosting fees to support our cloud services, an increase of $23.6 million in salaries and benefits expense, which includes a $4.9 million increase in stock-based compensation expense due to increased headcount and an increase of $14.5 million related to third-party consulting services. The $2.9 million increase in cost of license revenues was primarily due to an increase in amortization expense related to acquired intangible assets. Maintenance and services gross margin decreased primarily due to the growth of our cloud revenues during the year. Total gross margin decreased primarily due to maintenance and services revenues being a greater percentage of the overall revenue mix. 
  Operating Expenses   

   (1)    Includes stock-based compensation expense:   

  Research and development expense 
  Fiscal   2018   compared to fiscal   2017  .      Research and development expense increased   $5.3 million   primarily due to an increase of $4.3 million increase in hosting fees to support our product development efforts. This increase was partially offset by a $1.2 million decrease in salaries and benefits, which reflects a decrease of $22.7 million in stock-based compensation, partially offset by an increase of $21.5 million in salaries. The decrease in stock-based compensation was primarily due to the absence of accelerated vesting of certain restricted shares of common stock, which occurred during fiscal 2017. 
  Fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016  .      Research and development expense increased $80.5 million primarily due to a $69.0 million increase in salaries and benefits, which includes a $40.2 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, as we increased headcount as part of our focus on further developing and enhancing our products and services. The increase in stock-based compensation expense is partly related to the accelerated vesting of certain restricted shares of common stock. Additionally, we had an increase of $7.9 million related to overhead costs including rent and utilities costs. 
  Sales and marketing expense 
  Fiscal   2018   compared to fiscal   2017  .      Sales and marketing expense increased   $154.9 million   primarily due to a $107.1 million increase in salaries and benefits, net of a $1.9 million decrease in stock-based compensation expense. Additionally, we experienced an increase of $14.7 million in marketing expenses, an increase of $11.1 million in expenses  
  
   50 

     Table of Contents  

related to increased facilities and overhead, an increase of $9.9 million related to third-party consulting services and an increase of $4.3 million in travel-related expenses due to increased travel from our growing field sales organization. 
  Fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016  .      Sales and marketing expense increased $148.2 million primarily due to a $116.6 million increase in salaries and benefits, which includes a $31.1 million increase in stock-based compensation expense, as we increased headcount to expand our field sales organization and experienced higher commission expense as a result of increased customer orders. We experienced an increase of $16.7 million in expenses related to increased facilities and overhead, an increase of $10.2 million related to third-party consulting services and an increase of $2.9 million in travel-related expenses due to increased travel from our growing field sales organization. 
  General and administrative expense 
  Fiscal   2018   compared to fiscal   2017  .      General and administrative expense increased   $5.8 million   primarily due to a $11.9 million increase in salaries and benefits, which includes a $2.4 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Additionally, we had an increase in accounting and legal fees of $2.8 million and an increase of $2.8 million related to third-party consulting services. These increases were partially offset by a net decrease of $16.6 million in rent and depreciation expense related to adjustments made to our facility exit liability during fiscal 2017 and fiscal 2018.  
  Fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016  .      General and administrative expense increased $31.8 million primarily due to a $15.4 million increase in salaries and benefits, which includes a $9.6 million increase in stock-based compensation expense. Additionally, we had an increase of $11.4 million in connection with a facility exit charge and the accelerated depreciation of property and equipment and an increase of $3.2 million related to third-party consulting services. 
  Interest and Other Income (Expense), net   

  Fiscal   2018   compared to fiscal   2017  .     Interest and other income (expense), net reflects a net decrease in expense primarily due to an increase in interest income from our investments. 
  Fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016  .     Interest and other income (expense), net reflects a net increase in expense primarily due to an increase in interest expense from our financing lease obligation and an increase in foreign exchange losses. 
  Provision for Income Taxes   

  Fiscal   2018   compared to fiscal   2017  .     The decrease in income tax expense was primarily due to the partial release of the valuation allowance as a result of our acquisitions during fiscal 2018.  
  Fiscal   2017   compared to fiscal   2016  .      The increase in income tax expense was primarily due to the absence of a partial release of the valuation allowance from the acquisition of Caspida. Additionally, we experienced an increase in taxable income in our foreign operations.  
  
   51 

Table of Contents  

Quarterly Results of Operations 
  The following table sets forth our unaudited quarterly statements of operations data for the last eight fiscal quarters. The information for each of these quarters has been prepared on the same basis as the audited annual financial statements included elsewhere in this annual report and, in the opinion of management, includes all adjustments, which includes only normal recurring adjustments, necessary for the fair statement of the results of operations for these periods. This data should be read in conjunction with our audited consolidated financial statements and related notes included elsewhere in this annual report. These quarterly operating results are not necessarily indicative of our operating results for any future period. 

_________________________ 
            (1)   
    Includes stock-based compensation expense as follows: 

52 

     Table of Contents  

_______________________ 
   (1)    This percentage is calculated as a percentage of the associated revenues. 
  Seasonality, Cyclicality and Quarterly Trends 
  Our quarterly results reflect seasonality in the sale of our offerings. Historically, a pattern of increased license sales in the fourth fiscal quarter as a result of industry buying patterns has positively impacted sales activity in that period, which can result in lower sequential revenue in the first fiscal quarter. We expect this seasonality to continue in fiscal 2019 and beyond. Our gross margins and operating losses have been affected by these historical trends because the majority of our expenses are relatively fixed in the short term. The timing of revenues in relation to our expenses, much of which does not vary directly with  
  
   53 

     Table of Contents  

revenues, has an impact on the cost of revenues, research and development expense, sales and marketing expense and general and administrative expense as a percentage of revenues in each fiscal quarter during the year. The majority of our expenses are personnel-related and include salaries, stock-based compensation, benefits and incentive-based compensation plan expenses. As a result, we have not experienced significant seasonal fluctuations in the timing of expenses from period to period. Although these seasonal factors are common in the technology industry, historical patterns should not be considered a reliable indicator of our future sales activity or performance.  
   
  Liquidity and Capital Resources   

Our principal source of liquidity is our cash generated from operations. At   January 31, 2018  , our cash and cash equivalents of   $545.9 million   were held for working capital purposes, a majority of which were invested in money market funds, which we believe will be sufficient to meet our anticipated cash needs for at least the next 12 months. We intend to continue to focus our capital expenditures in fiscal 2019 to support the growth in our operations, including acquisition-related activities. We also have funds available under our Loan and Security Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank (as described below). Our future capital requirements will depend on many factors including our growth rate, the timing and extent of spending to support development efforts, the expansion of sales and marketing activities, the introduction of new and enhanced software and services offerings, the continuing market acceptance of our offerings and our planned investments, particularly in our product development efforts or acquisitions of complementary businesses, applications or technologies. 
  In the event that additional financing is required from outside sources, we may not be able to raise it on terms acceptable to us, if at all. If we are unable to raise additional capital when desired, our business, operating results and financial condition could be adversely affected. 
  Operating Activities 
  Operating activities consist of our net loss adjusted for certain non-cash items and changes in operating assets and liabilities during the year.  
    
  Net cash provided by operating activities was   $262.9 million   for the year ended   January 31, 2018   compared to   $201.8 million   from the prior year. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily related to an increase in deferred revenue and a reduction in payments for accrued payroll and compensation during the year ended   January 31, 2018   as compared to the prior year. These increases were partially offset by a reduction in accounts receivable collections and a reduction in payments for accrued expenses and other liabilities as compared to the prior year. 
  Net cash provided by operating activities was   $201.8 million   for the year ended   January 31, 2017   compared to   $155.6 million   from the prior year. The increase in net cash provided by operating activities was primarily related to an increase in deferred revenue and a reduction in payments for accrued expenses and other liabilities during the year ended   January 31, 2017   as compared to the prior year. This increase was partially offset by an increase in payments for prepaid expenses and an increase in payments for accrued compensation as compared to the prior year. 
  Investing Activities 
  Net cash used in investing activities was   $38.5 million   for the year ended   January 31, 2018   compared to   $127.5 million   from the prior year. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily related to a reduction of $120.3 million in purchases of investments, net of maturities, and a reduction of $24.8 million in purchases of property and equipment  
  
   54 

     Table of Contents  

as compared to the prior year. This inflow was partially offset by an increase of $59.4 in cash purchase price paid, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions.  
  Net cash used in investing activities was   $127.5 million   for the year ended   January 31, 2017   compared to   $153.5 million   from the prior year. The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily related to a reduction of $142.7 million in cash purchase price paid, net of cash acquired, for acquisitions, and a decrease of $6.0 million in capital expenditures. This decrease in cash outflow was partially offset by an increase of $120.6 million in purchases of investments, net of maturities, as compared to the prior year.  
  Financing Activities 
  Net cash used in financing activities was   $101.4 million   for the year ended   January 31, 2018   compared to   $77.9 million   from the prior year. The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily related to an increase of $24.1 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards.  
  Net cash used in financing activities was   $77.9 million   for the year ended   January 31, 2017   compared to net cash provided by financing activities of   $35.5 million   from the prior year. The increase in cash used in financing activities was primarily related to an increase of $113.7 million in taxes paid related to net share settlement of equity awards. 
  Loan and Security Agreement  
  On May 9, 2013 we entered into a Loan Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, which was most recently amended in May 2017. As amended, the agreement provides for a revolving line of credit facility, which expires May 9, 2018. Under the agreement, we are able to borrow up to   $25 million  . Interest on any drawdown under the revolving line of credit accrues either at the prime rate (  4.50%   in January   2018  ) or the LIBOR rate plus   2.75%  . As of   January 31, 2018  , we had   no   balance outstanding under this agreement. The agreement includes customary financial covenants and restrictive covenants, in each case subject to certain exceptions, that limit our ability to: sell or otherwise dispose of our business or property; change our business, liquidate or dissolve or undergo a change in control; enter into mergers, consolidations and acquisitions; incur indebtedness; create liens; pay dividends or make distributions; make investments; enter into material transactions with affiliates; pay any subordinated debt or amend certain terms thereof; or become an investment company. We were in compliance with all covenants as of   January 31, 2018  . 

Contractual Payment Obligations 
    
  Operating Lease Commitments and Purchase Obligations 
    
  We lease our office spaces under non-cancelable leases. Rent expense for our operating leases was   $16.8 million  ,   $28.1 million   and   $11.9 million   during fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. Rent expense includes a decrease of   $5.2 million   of expense for fiscal 2018, and an increase of   $8.6 million   of expense for fiscal 2017, in connection with facility exit charge adjustments. Refer to  Facility Exit Costs  below for details. 
    
  Purchase obligations are contractual obligations for purchase of goods or services and are defined as agreements that are enforceable and legally binding and that specify all significant terms, including: fixed or minimum quantities to be purchased; fixed, minimum, or variable price provisions; and the approximate timing of the transaction. 
    
  The following summarizes our operating lease commitments and significant purchase obligations as of   January 31, 2018   (in thousands): 

_________________________ 
   (1)    We entered into sublease agreements for portions of our office space and the future rental income of   $10.0 million   from these agreements has been included as an offset to our future minimum rental payments. 
   (2)    Purchase obligations relate primarily to IT and product infrastructure costs, enterprise subscription agreements, and sales and marketing costs. 
  
   55 

     Table of Contents  

Facility Exit Costs 
    
  In fiscal 2017, we relocated certain corporate offices in the San Francisco Bay Area and as a result, some of our leased office spaces are no longer in use. Accordingly, we calculated and recorded a liability at the "cease-use" date related to those operating leases based on the difference between the present value of the estimated future sublease rental income and the present value of our remaining lease obligations, adjusted for the effects of any prepaid or deferred items. We recorded a facility exit charge of approximately   $8.6 million   to "General and administrative" expenses in fiscal 2017 associated with the recognition of the liability. The short-term portion of the liability is recorded in "Accrued expenses and other liabilities" and the long-term portion of the liability is recorded in "Other liabilities, non-current," on the consolidated balance sheets. Cease-use liability balances are presented below (in thousands):   

   _________________________ 
   (1)    During fiscal 2018 we entered into sublease agreements for our office spaces that are no longer in use by us. As a result, we made an adjustment to our estimated future sublease rental income related to our cease-use liability. 
    
    Financing Lease Obligation 
    
  On April 29, 2014, we entered into an office lease (the  Lease ) for approximately   182,000   square feet located at 270 Brannan Street, San Francisco, California (the  Premises ). The Premises is allocated between the "Initial Premises" and "Additional Premises," which are each approximately 91,000 square feet of rentable space. The term of the Additional Premises begins one year after the Initial Premises and each have a term of   84   months. Our total obligation for the base rent is approximately   $92.0 million  . On May 13, 2014, we entered into an irrevocable, standby letter of credit with Silicon Valley Bank for   $6.0 million   to serve as a security deposit for the Lease. 
    
  As a result of our involvement during the construction period, whereby we had certain indemnification obligations related to the construction, we were considered for accounting purposes only, the owner of the construction project under build-to-suit lease accounting. We have recorded project construction costs incurred by the landlord as an asset and a corresponding long-term liability in  Property and equipment, net  and  Other liabilities, non-current,  respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. We moved into the Premises in February 2016. We have determined that the lease does not meet the criteria for  sale-leaseback  treatment, due to our continuing involvement in the project resulting from our standby letter of credit. Accordingly, the Lease will continue to be accounted for as a financing obligation. 
    
  As of   January 31, 2018  , future payments on the financing lease obligation are as follows (in thousands): 

Capital Commitment 
    
  We have made a $5.0 million capital commitment to a venture capital fund that requires us to contribute capital upon notice. As of   January 31, 2018  , we have contributed   $0.4 million   towards our capital commitment.  
       
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements 
  
   56 

     Table of Contents  

During fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , we did not have any relationships with unconsolidated organizations or financial partnerships, such as structured finance or special purpose entities that have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. 
    
    Indemnification Arrangements 
    
  During the ordinary course of business, we may indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse for losses suffered or incurred, our customers, vendors and their affiliates for certain intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties with respect to our offerings, in connection with our commercial end-user license arrangements or related to general business dealings with those parties. 
    
  As permitted under Delaware law, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers and directors, indemnifying them for certain events or occurrences while they serve as officers or directors of the company. 
    
  To date, there have not been any costs incurred in connection with such indemnification obligations; therefore, there is no accrual of such amounts at   January 31, 2018  . We are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnifications on our future results of operations. 

Item 7A.   Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures about Market Risk 
    
  Interest Rate Risk 
    
  We had cash and cash equivalents of   $545.9 million   as of   January 31, 2018  . We hold our cash and cash equivalents for working capital purposes. Our cash and cash equivalents are held in cash deposits and money market funds. The primary objective of our investment activities is to preserve principal while maximizing yields without significantly increasing risk. This objective is accomplished by making diversified investments, consisting only of investment grade securities. During the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , the effect of a hypothetical 10% increase or decrease in overall interest rates would not have had a material impact on our interest income. 
    
  Any draws under our revolving credit facility bear interest at a variable rate tied to the prime rate or the LIBOR rate. As of   January 31, 2018  , we had no balance outstanding under this agreement. 
    
  Foreign Currency Exchange Risk 
    
  Our results of operations and cash flows are subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates. All of our revenues are generated in U.S. dollars. Our expenses are generally denominated in the currencies in which our operations are located, which is primarily in the United States and to a lesser extent in Europe and Asia. Our results of operations and cash flows are, therefore, subject to fluctuations due to changes in foreign currency exchange rates and may be adversely affected in the future due to changes in foreign exchange rates. We seek to minimize the impact of certain foreign currency fluctuations by hedging certain balance sheet exposures with foreign currency forward contracts. Any gain or loss from settling these contracts is offset by the loss or gain derived from the underlying balance sheet exposures. We do not enter into any hedging contracts for trading or speculative purposes. The effect of a hypothetical 10% change in foreign currency exchange rates applicable to our business would not have a material impact on our historical consolidated financial statements. As our international operations grow, we will continue to reassess our approach to manage our risk relating to fluctuations in currency rates. 
    
  Inflation 
    
  We do not believe that inflation had a material effect on our business, financial condition or results of operations in the last three fiscal years. If our costs were to become subject to significant inflationary pressures, we may not be able to fully offset such higher costs through price increases. Our inability or failure to do so could harm our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
  For recent accounting pronouncements, see Note 1 of our accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements included in Part II, Item 8,  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
  
   57 

Table of Contents  

Item 8.  Financial Statements and Supplementary Data 
    
  Splunk Inc. 
    
  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements 
                   
    Page No. 
       Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  
    59 
       Consolidated Balance Sheets  
    60 
       Consolidated Statements of Operations  
    61 
       Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Loss  
    62 
       Consolidated Statements of Stockholders  Equity  
    63 
       Consolidated Statements of Cash Flows  
    64 
       Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    65 

The supplementary financial information required by this Item 8, is included in Part II, Item 7 under the caption  Quarterly Results of Operations,  which is incorporated herein by reference. 

58 

     Table of Contents  

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
    
  To the     Board of Directors and Stockholders of Splunk Inc.    
    
  Opinions on the Financial Statements and Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
    
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of Splunk Inc. and its subsidiaries as of January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2017, and the related consolidated statements of operations, of comprehensive loss, of stockholders  equity and of cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2018, including the related notes (collectively referred to as the  consolidated financial statements ).     We also have audited the Company's internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2018, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework     (2013)     issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (COSO).   
    
  In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements referred to above present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of January 31, 2018 and January 31, 2017, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the three years in the period ended January 31, 2018 in conformity with accounting principles generally accepted in the United States of America. Also in our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of January 31, 2018, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework     (2013)     issued by the COSO. 
    
  Change in Accounting Principle  
    
  As discussed in Note 1 to the consolidated financial statements, the Company changed the manner in which it accounts for certain elements of its employee share-based payments in 2018. 
    
  Basis for Opinions 
    
  The Company's management is responsible for these consolidated financial statements, for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting, and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in Management's Annual Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting appearing under Item 9A. Our responsibility is to express opinions on the Company s consolidated financial statements and on the Company's internal control over financial reporting based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ("PCAOB") and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
    
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audits to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated     financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud, and whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects.   
    
  Our audits of the consolidated financial statements included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks.  Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audits also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinions. 
    
  Definition and Limitations of Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
    
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (i) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (ii) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (iii) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
    
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 
    
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
  San Jose, California 
  March 30, 2018 
    
  We have served as the Company s auditor since 2010.  
  
   59 

Table of Contents  
  Splunk Inc. 
   CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (In thousands, except share and per share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  
   60 

Table of Contents  
  Splunk Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF OPERATIONS 
  (In thousands, except per share amounts) 

(1)        Amounts include stock-based compensation expense, as follows:  

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

61 

Table of Contents  
  Splunk Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE LOSS 
  (In thousands) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 

62 

Table of Contents  
  Splunk Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS' EQUITY 
  (In thousands, except share amounts) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements. 
  
   63 

Table of Contents  
  Splunk Inc. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (In thousands) 

The accompanying notes are an integral part of these consolidated financial statements.  
  
   64 

Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(1)  Description of the Business and Significant Accounting Policies 
    
  Business 
    
  Splunk Inc. ( we,   us,   our ) provides innovative software solutions that enable organizations to gain real-time operational intelligence by harnessing the value of their data. Our offerings enable users to collect, index, search, explore, monitor, correlate and analyze data regardless of format or source. Our offerings address large and diverse data sets commonly referred to as big data and are specifically tailored for machine data. Machine data is produced by nearly every software application and electronic device across an organization and contains a definitive, time-stamped record of various activities, such as transactions, customer and user behavior, and security threats. Our offerings help users derive new insights from machine data that can be used to, among other things, improve service levels, reduce operational costs, mitigate security risks, demonstrate and maintain compliance, and drive better business decisions. We were incorporated in California in October 2003 and reincorporated in Delaware in May 2006. 
    
  Fiscal Year 
    
  Our fiscal year ends on January 31. References to fiscal   2018  , for example, refer to the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018  . 
    
  Use of Estimates 
    
    The preparation of financial statements in conformity with U.S. GAAP requires management to make estimates and assumptions that affect the reported amounts of assets and liabilities and disclosure of contingent assets and liabilities at the date of the financial statements and reported amounts of revenues and expenses during the reporting periods covered by the financial statements and accompanying notes. In particular, we make estimates with respect to the fair value of multiple elements in revenue recognition, uncollectible accounts receivable, the assessment of the useful life and recoverability of long-lived assets (property and equipment, goodwill and identified intangibles), stock-based compensation expense, the fair value of assets acquired and liabilities assumed for business combinations, income taxes, leases and contingencies. Actual results could differ from those estimates. 
    
  Segments 
  We operate our business as   one   operating segment: the development and marketing of software solutions that enable our customers to gain real-time operational intelligence by harnessing the value of their data. Our chief operating decision maker is our Chief Executive Officer, who reviews financial information presented on a consolidated basis for purposes of making operating decisions, assessing financial performance and allocating resources. 
  Principles of Consolidation 
    
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements include the accounts of Splunk Inc. and its direct and indirect wholly-owned subsidiaries. All intercompany balances and transactions have been eliminated upon consolidation. 
    
  Foreign Currency  
    
  The functional currency of our foreign subsidiaries is their respective local currency. Translation adjustments arising from the use of differing exchange rates from period to period are included in "Accumulated other comprehensive income (loss)" within the consolidated statements of stockholders  equity. Foreign currency transaction gains and losses are included in "Other income (expense), net" and were not material for the three years ended   January 31, 2018  . All assets and liabilities denominated in a foreign currency are translated into U.S. dollars at the exchange rate on the balance sheet date. Expenses are translated at the average exchange rate during the period. Equity transactions are translated using historical exchange rates. 
    
  Foreign Currency Contracts           
  We use foreign currency forward contracts as a part of our strategy to manage exposure related to foreign currency denominated monetary assets and liabilities. These contracts typically have maturities of one month. They are not designated as cash flow or fair value hedges under ASC Topic 815, Derivatives and Hedging. These contracts hedge assets and liabilities that  
  
   65 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

are denominated in foreign currencies and are carried at fair value as either assets or liabilities on the consolidated balance sheets with changes in the fair value recorded to "Other income (expense), net" in the consolidated statements of operations. 
    
  Business Combinations           
  We use our best estimates and assumptions to allocate the fair value of purchase consideration to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed based on their estimated fair values. The excess of the fair value of purchase consideration over the fair values of these identifiable assets and liabilities is recorded as goodwill. Our estimates are inherently uncertain and subject to refinement. During the measurement period, which may be up to one year from the acquisition date, we may record adjustments to the fair value of these tangible and intangible assets acquired and liabilities assumed, with the corresponding offset to goodwill. In addition, uncertain tax positions and tax-related valuation allowances are initially established in connection with a business combination as of the acquisition date. We continue to collect information and reevaluate these estimates and assumptions quarterly and record any adjustments to our preliminary estimates to goodwill provided that we are within the measurement period. Upon the conclusion of the final determination of the fair value of assets acquired or liabilities assumed during the measurement period, any subsequent adjustments are recorded to our consolidated statements of operations. 
    
  Strategic Investments 
    
  We hold certain non-marketable equity securities which are accounted for using the cost method of accounting. These investments are recorded at cost in "Investments, non-current" on our consolidated balance sheets and are adjusted only for other-than-temporary impairments and additional investments. 
    
  Revenue Recognition 
    
  We generate revenues primarily in the form of software license fees and related maintenance and services fees. License fees include perpetual license fees, term license fees and royalties. Maintenance and services primarily consist of fees for maintenance services (including support and unspecified upgrades and enhancements when and if they are available), training, professional services that are not essential to functionality and subscription software services. 
    
  We recognize revenues when all of the following conditions are met: 

there is persuasive evidence of an arrangement;  

the software or services have been delivered to the customer;  

the amount of fees to be paid by the customer is fixed or determinable; and  

the collection of the related fees is probable. 
       
  Signed agreements are used as evidence of an arrangement. If a contract signed by the customer does not exist, we use a purchase order as evidence of an arrangement. In cases where both a signed contract and a purchase order exist, we consider the signed contract to be the final persuasive evidence of an arrangement. Electronic delivery occurs when we provide the customer with access to the software via a license key. We assess whether a fee is fixed or determinable at the outset of the arrangement, primarily based on the payment terms associated with the transaction. We assess collectability of the fee based on a number of factors such as collection history and creditworthiness of the customer. If we determine that collectability is not probable, revenue is deferred until collectability becomes probable, generally upon receipt of cash. 
    
  When contracts contain software-related multiple elements wherein vendor specific objective evidence ( VSOE ) exists for all undelivered elements and the services, if any, are not essential to the functionality of the delivered elements, we account for the delivered elements in accordance with the  Residual Method.  Perpetual license arrangements are typically accompanied by maintenance agreements. Maintenance revenues consist of fees for providing software updates on a when-and-if-available basis and technical support for software products for an initial term. Maintenance revenues are recognized ratably over the term of the agreement. We have established fair value for maintenance on perpetual licenses due to consistently priced standalone sales of maintenance. Revenues related to term license fees are recognized ratably over the contract term beginning on the date the customer has access to the software license key and continuing through the end of the contract term. In these cases, we do not have VSOE of fair value for maintenance, as fees for support and maintenance are bundled with the license over the entire term of the contract. 

66 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

License arrangements may also include professional services and training services, which are typically delivered early in the contract term. In determining whether professional services revenues should be accounted for separately from license revenues, we evaluate whether the professional services are considered essential to the functionality of the software using factors such as the nature of our software products; whether they are ready for use by the customer upon receipt; the nature of our implementation services, which typically do not involve significant customization to or development of the underlying software code; the availability of services from other vendors; whether the timing of payments for license revenues is coincident with performance of services; and whether milestones or acceptance criteria exist that affect the realizability of the software license fee. Substantially all of our professional services arrangements are billed on a time and materials basis and, accordingly, are recognized as the services are performed. Training revenues are recognized as training services are delivered. VSOE of fair value of professional and training services is based upon stand-alone sales of those services. Payments received in advance of services performed are deferred and recognized when the related services are performed. 
    
  We are unable to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements in certain multiple element arrangements due to the lack of VSOE for maintenance services that are generally bundled with term licenses. In these instances, all revenue is recognized ratably over the period that the services are expected to be performed, commencing when all service periods have started. In arrangements where the expected service periods of maintenance services and professional or training services differ, we recognize all revenue over the longer of the expected service periods, which is generally the maintenance period. 
    
  We do not offer credits or refunds and therefore have not recorded any sales return allowance for any of the periods presented. Upon a periodic review of outstanding accounts receivable, amounts that are deemed to be uncollectible are written off against the allowance for doubtful accounts. Our policy is to record revenues net of any applicable sales, use or excise taxes. 
    
  We recognize revenues from the indirect sales channel upon sell-through by the partner or distributor. Sell-through is determined when we receive an order form from a reseller for a specific end-user sale. We do not offer right of return, product rotation or price protection to any of our channel partners. We also have licensing arrangements with OEM customers for which royalty fees are generally recognized as revenue upon receipt of reports of units shipped, respectively. Provided all other revenue criteria are met, the upfront, minimum, non-refundable license fees from OEM customers are recognized upon delivery, and on-going royalty fees are recognized upon reports of units shipped. 
    
  In our consolidated statements of operations, revenues are categorized as license or maintenance and services revenues. We allocate revenues from arrangements containing multiple elements to each of these categories based on the VSOE of fair value for elements in each revenue arrangement and the application of the residual method for arrangements in which we have established VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements. In arrangements where we are not able to establish VSOE of fair value for all undelivered elements, we first allocate revenues to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has been established, then allocate revenues to any undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established based upon management s best estimate of fair value of those undelivered elements and apply a residual method to determine the license fee. Management s best estimate of fair value of undelivered elements for which VSOE of fair value has not been established is based upon the VSOE of similar offerings and other objective criteria. 
    
  For multiple-element arrangements containing our non-software services, we: (1) determine whether each element constitutes a separate unit of accounting; (2) determine the fair value of each element using the selling price hierarchy of VSOE of selling price, third-party evidence ( TPE ) of selling price or best-estimated selling price ( BESP ), as applicable; and (3) allocate the total price to each separate unit of accounting based on the relative selling price method. An element constitutes a separate unit of accounting when the delivered item has standalone value and delivery of the undelivered element is probable and within our control. We determine BESP by considering our overall pricing objectives and market conditions. Significant pricing practices taken into consideration include our discounting practices, the size and volume of our transactions, our price lists, our go-to-market strategy, historical standalone sales and contract prices.  As our go-to-market strategies evolve, we may modify our pricing practices in the future, which could result in changes in relative selling prices, including both VSOE and BESP. 
    
  For multiple-element arrangements that contain both software and non-software elements, we allocate revenue to software or software-related elements as a group and any non-software elements separately based on the selling price hierarchy. We determine the selling price for each deliverable using VSOE of selling price, if it exists, or TPE of selling price. If neither VSOE nor TPE of selling price exist for a deliverable, we use BESP. Once revenue is allocated to software or software-related elements as a group, we recognize revenue in conformance with software revenue accounting guidance. Revenue is recognized when revenue recognition criteria are met for each element. 
    
  In our subscription software services agreements, we include service level commitments to customers relating to levels of uptime availability and permitting those customers to receive credits in the event that we fail to meet those levels. To date,  
  
   67 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

we have not incurred any material costs as a result of such commitments and have not accrued any liabilities related to such obligations in the accompanying consolidated financial statements.  
    
  Deferred revenue consists substantially of amounts invoiced in advance of revenue recognition for our products and services described above. We recognize deferred revenue as revenue only when the revenue recognition criteria are met. 
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents 
    
  We consider all highly liquid instruments with original maturities of 90 days or less at the date of purchase to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents are recorded at cost, which approximates fair value. We do not hold or issue financial instruments for trading purposes.  
    
  Investments 
    
  We determine the appropriate classification of our investments at the time of purchase and reevaluate such determination at each balance sheet date. Securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value, with the change in unrealized gains and losses, net of tax, reported as a separate component on the consolidated statements of comprehensive income (loss). Fair value is determined based on quoted market rates when observable or utilizing data points that are observable, such as quoted prices, interest rates and yield curves. Declines in fair value judged to be other-than-temporary on securities available for sale are included as a component of investment income. In order to determine whether a decline in value is other-than-temporary, we evaluate, among other factors, the duration and extent to which the fair value has been less than the carrying value and our intent and ability to retain the investment for a period of time sufficient to allow for any anticipated recovery in fair value. The cost of securities sold is based on the specific-identification method. Interest on securities classified as available-for-sale is included as a component of Interest income, net. 
    
  Concentration of Risk 
    
  Financial instruments that potentially subject us to significant concentrations of credit risk consist principally of cash and cash equivalents, investments and accounts receivable. We maintain the majority of our cash balance at   two   financial institutions that management believes are high-credit, quality financial institutions and invest our cash equivalents in highly rated money market funds.  
    
  At   January 31, 2018  , one channel partner represented   39%   of total accounts receivable and a second channel partner represented   10%   of total accounts receivable. At   January 31, 2017  , one channel partner represented   30%   of total accounts receivable.     
    
  Our accounts receivable is subject to collection risk. Our gross accounts receivable is reduced for this risk by an allowance for doubtful accounts. This allowance is for estimated losses resulting from the inability of our customers to make required payments. It is an estimate and is regularly evaluated for adequacy by taking into consideration a combination of factors. We look at factors such as past collection experience, credit quality of the customer, age of the receivable balance, and current economic conditions. These factors are reviewed to determine whether an allowance for bad debts should be recorded to reduce the receivable balance to the amount believed to be collectible. 
    
  The following table presents the changes in the allowance for doubtful accounts (in thousands): 

Goodwill, Intangible Assets, Long-Lived Assets and Impairment Assessments 
    
  Goodwill and indefinite-lived intangible assets are carried at cost and are evaluated annually for impairment, or more frequently if circumstances exist that indicate that impairment may exist. When conducting our annual goodwill impairment assessment, we perform a quantitative evaluation of whether goodwill is impaired using the two-step impairment test. The first  
  
   68 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

step is comparing the fair value of our reporting unit to its carrying value. We consider the enterprise to be the reporting unit for this analysis. If step one indicates that impairment potentially exists, the second step is performed to measure the amount of impairment, if any. We record the amount by which the carrying value of the goodwill exceeds its implied fair value, if any, as impairment. 
    
  Finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. Each period we evaluate the estimated remaining useful life of our finite-lived intangible assets and whether events or changes in circumstances warrant a revision to the remaining period of amortization. The carrying amounts of these assets are periodically reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. Recoverability of these assets is measured by comparison of the carrying amount of each asset to the future undiscounted cash flows the asset is expected to generate. If the undiscounted cash flows used in the test for recoverability are less than the carrying amount of these assets, then the carrying amount of such assets is reduced to fair value. 
    
  In-process research and development is initially capitalized at fair value as an intangible asset with an indefinite life and assessed for impairment thereafter. When in-process research and development projects are completed, the corresponding amount is reclassified as an amortizable intangible asset and is amortized over the asset s estimated useful life. 
    
  We evaluate the recoverability of our long-lived assets including intangible and tangible assets. Acquired finite-lived intangible assets are amortized over their useful lives. We evaluate long-lived assets for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying value of these assets may not be recoverable. We recognize such impairment in the event the net book value of such assets exceeds their fair value. If the fair value of the long-lived assets exceeds the carrying value of the net assets assigned, then the assets are not impaired and no further testing is performed. If the carrying value of the net assets assigned exceeds the fair value of the assets, then we must perform the second step of the impairment test in order to determine the implied fair value.  
    
  Property and Equipment 
    
  Property and equipment are stated at cost net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets ranging from generally three to five years. Leasehold improvements are amortized over the shorter of the estimated useful life or the remaining lease term. When assets are retired or disposed of, the cost and accumulated depreciation are removed from the accounts, and any resulting gains or losses are included in the consolidated statements of operations. Maintenance and repairs that do not improve or extend the lives of the respective assets are charged to expense in the period incurred. 
    
  The following table presents the estimated useful lives of our property and equipment: 
                   
    Useful Life 
      Computer equipment and software 
    3 years 
      Furniture and fixtures 
    5 years 
      Leasehold improvements 
    Shorter of the useful life of the asset or the lease term 

Capitalized Software Development Costs 
    
  Capitalization of software development costs for software to be sold, leased, or otherwise marketed begins upon the establishment of technological feasibility, which is generally the completion of a working prototype that has been certified as having no critical bugs and is a release candidate. Amortization begins once the software is ready for its intended use, generally based on the pattern in which the economic benefits will be consumed. We did not capitalize any internal software development costs for fiscal   2018   and   2017   because the cost incurred and the time between technological feasibility and product release was insignificant. We had no amortization expense from capitalized purchased technology during fiscal   2018  ,   2017   or   2016  . 
    
  Costs related to software acquired, developed or modified solely to meet our internal requirements, with no substantive plans to market such software at the time of development, are capitalized. Costs incurred during the preliminary planning and evaluation stage of the project and during post implementation operational stage are expensed as incurred. Costs incurred during the application development stage of the project are capitalized. We define the design, configuration, and coding process as the application development stage. We did not capitalize any costs related to computer software developed for internal use in fiscal   2018   or   2017  .  

69 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Commissions 
  Commissions are recorded as a component of sales and marketing expenses and consist of the variable compensation paid to our sales force. Sales commissions are earned and recorded at the time that a customer has entered into a binding purchase agreement. Commissions paid to sales personnel are recoverable only in the case that we cannot collect the invoiced amounts associated with a sales order. Commission expense was   $146.4 million  ,   $109.1 million   and   $88.5 million   for fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Leases 
  We primarily lease our facilities under operating leases. For leases that contain rent escalation or rent concession provisions, we record the total rent expense during the lease term on a straight-line basis over the term of the lease. We record the difference between the rent paid and the straight-line rent expense as a current and non-current deferred rent liability in "Accrued expenses and other liabilities" and "Other liabilities, non-current," respectively, on the consolidated balance sheets. Rent expense for our operating leases was   $16.8 million  ,   $28.1 million   and   $11.9 million   during fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
  Facility Exit Costs 
  Certain of our operating facility leases include office space that is not occupied or used by us. We calculate and record a liability at the "cease-use" date related to those operating leases based on the difference between the present value of estimated future sublease rental income and the present value of our remaining lease obligations, adjusted for the effects of any prepaid or deferred items. The short-term portion of the liability is recorded in "Accrued expenses and other liabilities" and the long-term portion of the liability is recorded in "Other liabilities, non-current," on the consolidated balance sheets. Associated with the recognition of the liability, we also record a corresponding charge to "General and administrative" expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. 
    
  Advertising Expense 
  We expense advertising costs as incurred. We incurred   $10.1 million  ,   $10.0 million   and   $13.3 million   in advertising expenses for fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. Advertising costs are recorded in "Sales and marketing" expenses in the consolidated statements of operations. 
  Stock-Based Compensation 
    We recognize compensation expense for all share-based payment awards, including stock options, restricted stock units ( RSUs ), performance units ( PSUs ) and restricted stock awards ( RSAs ), based on the estimated fair value of the award on the grant date in the consolidated statements of operations over the related vesting periods. The expense recorded is based on awards ultimately expected to vest and therefore is reduced by estimated forfeitures. Forfeitures are estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differ from those estimates. We calculate the fair value of options using the Black-Scholes method and expense using the straight-line attribution approach. 
    
  We account for equity awards issued to non-employees, such as consultants, in accordance with the guidance relating to equity instruments that are issued to other than employees for acquiring, or in conjunction with selling, goods or services, using the Black-Scholes method to determine the fair value of such instruments. Awards granted to non-employees are remeasured over the vesting period, and the resulting value is recorded as an expense over the period the services are received. 
  The fair value of each option grant and stock purchase right granted under the Employee Stock Purchase Plan ( ESPP ) was estimated on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model. We recognize stock-based compensation expense related to our ESPP on a straight-line basis over the offering period, which is twelve months. Stock-based compensation expense is recognized net of estimated forfeiture activity. 
    
  The determination of the grant date fair value of options using an option-pricing model is affected by assumptions regarding a number of other complex and subjective variables, which include our expected stock price volatility over the expected term of the options, stock option exercise and cancellation behaviors, risk-free interest rates and expected dividends.  
    
  The number of PSUs earned and eligible to vest will be determined based on achievement of certain company financial performance measures and the recipient s continued service with us. The number of shares of our stock to be received at vesting can range from 0% to 200% of the target amount. Compensation expense for PSUs is measured using the fair value  
  
   70 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

at the date of grant and recorded over the vesting period under the graded-vesting attribution method, and may be adjusted over the vesting period based on interim estimates of performance against the pre-set objectives.  
    
  Income Taxes 
  Income taxes are accounted for under the asset and liability method in accordance with authoritative guidance for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax basis and operating loss and tax credit carry forwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. 
    
  The guidance on accounting for uncertainty in income taxes requires us to identify, evaluate and measure all uncertain tax positions taken or to be taken on tax returns and to record liabilities for the amount of these positions that may not be sustained, or may only partially be sustained, upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities. Although we believe that our estimates and judgments were reasonable, actual results may differ from these estimates. Some or all of these judgments are subject to review by the taxing authorities. 
    
  Recently Adopted Accounting Standards 
    
  In March 2016, the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ) issued accounting standards update ( ASU ) No. 2016-09 (Topic 718), Compensation - Stock Compensation, which has been issued as part of its Simplification Initiative. The new guidance requires companies to recognize stock-based compensation excess tax benefits, net of detriments (if any) to the condensed consolidated statements of operations, as opposed to additional paid-in capital within equity, when the awards vest or are exercised. Additionally, net excess tax benefit cash flows resulting from share-based payments are required to be reported as operating activities in the statement of cash flows. These updates are to be adopted either prospectively or retrospectively. The new guidance also allows companies to make a policy election to account for forfeitures as they occur, which, if elected, must be adopted using a modified retrospective approach with a cumulative effect adjustment recorded to opening retained earnings. 
    
  The ASU is effective for public companies for fiscal years beginning after December 15, 2016 and interim periods within those fiscal years. We adopted this guidance during the first quarter of fiscal year 2018. Excess tax benefits on stock plans have been recorded to the consolidated statements of operations rather than to additional paid-in capital within equity on a prospective basis. At April 30, 2017, we recorded $301.6 million of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits, which are fully offset by the related valuation allowance. We did not record an adjustment to our accumulated deficit as a result of adopting ASC 2016-09. We also elected to prospectively apply the change in presentation requirement wherein income tax effects of awards are classified as operating activities in the condensed consolidated statement of cash flows. Prior period classification of cash flows related to excess tax benefits have not been adjusted. We did not elect an accounting policy change to record forfeitures as they occur and we will continue to estimate forfeitures at each period. 
    
  In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-04 (Topic 350) Intangibles - Goodwill and Other. The new standard simplifies how companies are required to test goodwill for impairment by eliminating Step 2 from the goodwill impairment test. Step 2 measures a goodwill impairment loss by comparing the implied fair value of a reporting unit's goodwill with the carrying amount of that goodwill. Instead, if the carrying amount of a reporting unit exceeds its fair value, an impairment loss shall be recognized in an amount equal to that excess, limited to the total amount of goodwill allocated to that reporting unit. The standard is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted. We early adopted this standard in our fourth quarter of fiscal 2018. The adoption of this new standard did not have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Recently Issued Accounting Pronouncements 
    
    In May 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-09 (Topic 718), Scope of Modification Accounting. The new standard clarifies when changes to the terms or conditions of a share-based payment award must be accounted for as modifications. The standard is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and although early adoption is permitted, we did not early adopt. We do not expect a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. 
    
  In January 2017, the FASB issued ASU No. 2017-01 (Topic 805) Business Combinations - Clarifying the Definition of a Business. The new standard narrows the application of when an integrated set of assets and activities is considered a business and provides a framework to assist entities in evaluating whether both an input and a substantive process are present to be  
  
   71 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

considered a business. The standard is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and although early adoption is permitted, we did not early adopt. We anticipate that the adoption of the new guidance will result in more transactions being accounted for as asset acquisitions rather than business combinations and that the new standard will impact management's consideration of strategic investments, but do not expect a material impact on our consolidated financial statements upon adoption. 
    
  In October 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-16 (Topic 740), Intra-Entity Transfers of Assets Other Than Inventory. The new standard will require companies to recognize, as opposed to defer, the tax effects from intercompany transfers of certain assets when the transfer occurs. The standard is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and although early adoption is permitted, we did not early adopt. We are currently evaluating whether the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  In June 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-13 (Topic 326), Financial Instruments - Credit Losses. The amendments in this update require a financial asset (or a group of financial assets) measured at an amortized cost basis to be presented at the net amount expected to be collected. The new approach to estimating credit losses (referred to as the current expected credit losses model) applies to most financial assets measured at amortized cost and certain other instruments, including trade and other receivables, loans and held-to-maturity debt securities. The standard is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2021, although early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating whether the adoption of this standard will have a material impact on our consolidated financial statements. 
    
  In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02 (Topic 842), Leases, which supersedes the lease recognition requirements in ASC Topic 840, Leases. The standard requires an entity to recognize right-of-use assets and lease liabilities arising from a lease for operating leases, initially measured at the present value of the lease payments on the consolidated balance sheets. The impact of such leases on the consolidated statements of operations and cash flows will continue to be treated in a similar manner under current GAAP. The standard also requires additional qualitative and quantitative disclosures. The standard is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2020, although early adoption is permitted. We are currently evaluating the impact of this standard on our consolidated financial statements and related disclosures. We anticipate that most of our office leases will be recognized as lease liabilities and corresponding right-of-use assets, and will accordingly have a material impact on our consolidated balance sheets upon adoption. 
    
  In January 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-01 (Subtopic 825-10), Financial Instruments - Overall. The amendments in this update address certain aspects of recognition, measurement, presentation, and disclosure of financial instruments, and require equity securities to be measured at fair value with changes in fair value recognized through net income. The standard is effective for our first quarter of fiscal 2019, and although early adoption is permitted, we did not early adopt. We do not expect this standard will have a material impact on our condensed consolidated financial statements upon adoption. 
    
  Revenue from Contracts with Customers 
    
  In May 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09 (Topic 606), Revenue from Contracts with Customers, which supersedes the revenue recognition requirements in Accounting Standards Codification 605, Revenue Recognition and establishes a new revenue standard. This new standard is based on the principle that revenue is recognized to depict the transfer of goods or services to customers in an amount that reflects the consideration to which the entity expects to be entitled to in exchange for those goods or services. The standard also requires additional disclosures about the nature, amount, timing and uncertainty of revenues and cash flows arising from customer contracts, including significant judgments and changes in judgments, and assets recognized from costs incurred to obtain or fulfill a contract. 
    
  The Topic 606 guidance permits two methods of adoption: retrospectively to each prior reporting period presented (full retrospective method) or retrospectively with the cumulative effect of initially applying the guidance recognized at the date of initial application (modified retrospective method). We adopted Topic 606 as of February 1, 2018 using the full retrospective method, which requires us to restate our historical financial information for fiscal years 2017 and 2018 to be consistent with the new standard.  
    
  In preparation for adoption of the new standard, we have updated our accounting policies, systems, internal controls, and processes. The most significant impacts of the standard relate to the timing of revenue recognition for arrangements involving term licenses, deferred revenue and sales commissions. Under the new revenue standard, we are required to recognize term license revenues upon the transfer of the license and the associated maintenance revenues over the contract period. Under the current revenue standard, we recognize both the term license and maintenance revenues ratably over the contract period. Additionally, some deferred revenue, primarily from arrangements involving term licenses, was never recognized as revenue and instead will be a cumulative effect adjustment within accumulated deficit. Finally, we are required to  
  
   72 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

capitalize and amortize incremental costs of obtaining a contract, such as certain sales commission costs, over the remaining contractual term or over an expected period of benefit, which we have determined to be approximately five years. Under our current accounting policy, we do not capitalize sales commission costs but rather recognize these costs when they are incurred. 
    
  The adoption of the standard will have no significant impact to the provision for income taxes and will have no impact to the net cash provided by (used in) operating, investing, or financing activities in our consolidated statements of cash flows. In future periods, we will be required to disclose in the notes to our consolidated financial statements the amount and timing of revenues expected to be recognized from remaining performance obligations under customer contracts. 
    
  The following tables present the impacts of the new standard to the reported results on our selected consolidated balance sheet data and selected consolidated statements of operations data (in thousands, except per share data): 
    
  Selected Consolidated Statement of Operations Data 

Selected Consolidated Balance Sheets Data 

73 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(2)  Investments and Fair Value Measurements 
    
  The carrying amounts of certain of our financial instruments including cash equivalents, accounts receivable, accounts payable and accrued liabilities approximate fair value due to their short-term maturities.  
    
  Assets and liabilities recorded at fair value in the financial statements are categorized based upon the level of judgment associated with the inputs used to measure their fair value. Hierarchical levels that are directly related to the amount of subjectivity associated with the inputs to the valuation of these assets or liabilities are as follows: 
    
  Level 1 Observable inputs, such as quoted prices in active markets for identical assets or liabilities. 
    
  Level 2 Observable inputs other than Level 1 prices such as quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities, quoted prices in markets that are not active, or other inputs that are observable or can be corroborated by observable market data for substantially the full term of the assets or liabilities. 
    
  Level 3 Unobservable inputs that are supported by little or no market activity and that are significant to the fair value of the assets or liabilities. 
    
  Assets and liabilities measured at fair value are classified in their entirety based on the lowest level of input that is significant to the fair value measurement. Our assessment of the significance of a particular input to the fair value measurement in its entirety requires management to make judgments and consider factors specific to the asset or liability. 
    
  The following table sets forth the fair value of our financial assets and liabilities that were measured on a recurring basis as of   January 31, 2018   and   2017   (in thousands): 
  
   74 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Our investments in money market funds are measured at fair value on a recurring basis. These money market funds are actively traded and reported daily through a variety of sources. The fair value of the money market fund investments is classified as Level 1. 
    
  We invested in U.S. treasury securities during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , which we have classified as available-for-sale securities. The following table presents our available-for-sale investments as of   January 31, 2018   (in thousands):  

The following table presents our available-for-sale investments as of   January 31, 2017   (in thousands):  

As of   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , the following marketable securities were in an unrealized loss position (in thousands): 

As of   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , we did not consider any of our investments to be other-than-temporarily impaired.  
    
  The contractual maturities of our investments are as follows (in thousands): 
  
   75 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Investments with maturities of less than 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as current assets, which are available for use to fund current operations. Investments with maturities greater than 12 months from the balance sheet date are classified as long-term assets. 
    
  Strategic Investments 
    
  We hold strategic investments in the form of non-marketable equity securities which are recorded at cost. During fiscal 2018,   $3.0 million   of our investments in the form of convertible promissory notes in a privately-held company were automatically converted into preferred stock. As a result, these non-marketable equity securities are no longer classified as Level 3 investments measured at fair value and are now accounted for as cost method investments. We have not recognized any unrealized gains or losses or any other-than-temporary impairment charges on these investments. The carrying value of our strategic investments was   $5.4 million   and   $2.0 million   as of   January 31, 2018   and   January 31, 2017  , respectively. 

(3)  Commitments and Contingencies 
    
  Operating Lease Commitments 
    
  We lease our office spaces under non-cancelable leases. Rent expense for our operating leases was   $16.8 million  ,   $28.1 million   and   $11.9 million   during fiscal   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. Rent expense includes a decrease of   $5.2 million   of expense for fiscal 2018, and an increase of   $8.6 million   of expense for fiscal 2017, in connection with facility exit charge adjustments. Refer to  Facility Exit Costs  below for details. 
    
  The following summarizes our operating lease commitments as of   January 31, 2018   (in thousands): 

_________________________ 
   (1)    We entered into sublease agreements for portions of our office space and the future rental income of   $10.0 million   from these agreements has been included as an offset to our future minimum rental payments. 
    
  Facility Exit Costs 
    
  In fiscal 2017, we relocated certain corporate offices in the San Francisco Bay Area and as a result, some of our leased office spaces are no longer in use. Accordingly, we calculated and recorded a liability at the "cease-use" date related to those operating leases based on the difference between the present value of the estimated future sublease rental income and the present value of our remaining lease obligations, adjusted for the effects of any prepaid or deferred items. We recorded a facility exit charge of approximately   $8.6 million   to "General and administrative" expenses in fiscal 2017 associated with the recognition of the liability. The short-term portion of the liability is recorded in "Accrued expenses and other liabilities" and the long-term portion of the liability is recorded in "Other liabilities, non-current," on the consolidated balance sheets. Cease-use liability balances are presented below (in thousands):   

   _________________________ 
   (1)    During fiscal 2018 we entered into sublease agreements for our office spaces that are no longer in use by us. As a result, we made an adjustment to our estimated future sublease rental income related to our cease-use liability. 
  
   76 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Financing Lease Obligation 
    
  On April 29, 2014, we entered into an office lease (the  Lease ) for approximately   182,000   square feet located at 270 Brannan Street, San Francisco, California (the  Premises ). The Premises is allocated between the "Initial Premises" and "Additional Premises," which are each approximately   91,000   square feet of rentable space. The term of the Additional Premises begins one year after the Initial Premises and each have a term of   84   months. Our total obligation for the base rent is approximately   $92.0 million  . On May 13, 2014, we entered into an irrevocable, standby letter of credit with Silicon Valley Bank for   $6.0 million   to serve as a security deposit for the Lease. 
    
  As a result of our involvement during the construction period, whereby we had certain indemnification obligations related to the construction, we were considered for accounting purposes only, the owner of the construction project under build-to-suit lease accounting. We have recorded project construction costs incurred by the landlord as an asset and a corresponding long-term liability in  Property and equipment, net  and  Other liabilities, non-current,  respectively, on our consolidated balance sheets. We moved into the Premises in February 2016. We have determined that the lease does not meet the criteria for  sale-leaseback  treatment, due to our continuing involvement in the project resulting from our standby letter of credit. Accordingly, the Lease will continue to be accounted for as a financing obligation. 
    
  As of   January 31, 2018  , future payments on the financing lease obligation are as follows (in thousands): 

Legal Proceedings 
    
  We are subject to certain routine legal and regulatory proceedings, as well as demands and claims that arise in the normal course of our business. We make a provision for a liability relating to legal matters when it is both probable that a liability has been incurred and the amount of the loss can be reasonably estimated. These provisions are reviewed at least quarterly and adjusted to reflect the impact of negotiations, estimated settlements, legal rulings, advice of legal counsel and other information and events pertaining to a particular matter. In our opinion, resolution of any pending claims (either individually or in the aggregate) is not expected to have a material adverse impact on our consolidated results of operations, cash flows or financial position, nor is it possible to provide an estimated amount of any such loss. However, depending on the nature and timing of any such dispute, an unfavorable resolution of a matter could materially affect our future results of operations or cash flows, or both, in a particular quarter. 
    
  Indemnification Arrangements 
    
  During the ordinary course of business, we may indemnify, hold harmless and agree to reimburse for losses suffered or incurred, our customers, vendors, and each of their affiliates for certain intellectual property infringement and other claims by third parties with respect to our offerings, in connection with our commercial license arrangements or related to general business dealings with those parties. 
    
  As permitted under Delaware law, we have entered into indemnification agreements with our officers, directors and certain employees, indemnifying them for certain events or occurrences while they serve as our officers or directors or those of our direct and indirect subsidiaries. 
    
  To date, there have not been any costs incurred in connection with such indemnification obligations; therefore, there is   no   accrual of such amounts at   January 31, 2018  . We are unable to estimate the maximum potential impact of these indemnifications on our future results of operations. 

(4)  Property and Equipment 
  
   77 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Property and equipment are stated at cost, net of accumulated depreciation and amortization. These assets are depreciated and amortized using the straight-line method over their estimated useful lives. Property and equipment consisted of the following (in thousands): 

(1)    Includes costs related to assets not yet placed into service of   $2.8 million   and   $1.0 million  , as of   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , respectively.  
     
   (2)    This relates to the capitalization of construction costs in connection with our financing lease obligation, where we are considered the owner of the asset, for accounting purposes only. There is a corresponding long-term liability for this obligation on our consolidated balance sheets under  Other liabilities, non-current.  Refer to Note 3  Commitments and Contingencies  for details.  
    
  Depreciation and amortization expense on Property and Equipment, net was   $26.1 million  ,   $22.8 million   and   $10.3 million   for the fiscal years ended January 31,   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. Included in depreciation and amortization expense for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2017 is   $2.7 million   of expense related to the acceleration of depreciation on certain property and equipment due to the "cease-use" of certain operating facility leases. 

(5)  Acquisitions, Goodwill and Intangible Assets 
    
  Rocana  
    
  On October 6, 2017, we acquired certain assets of Rocana, Inc. ( Rocana ), a privately-held Delaware corporation that develops analytics solutions for the IT market. This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination. The purchase price of   $30.2 million  , paid in cash, was preliminarily allocated as follows:   $10.1 million   to identifiable intangible assets, with the excess   $20.1 million   of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is primarily attributable to the value expected from the synergies of the combination, including advancing the analytics and machine learning capabilities of our products, and is deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations of the acquired entity, which are not material, have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of purchase. Pro forma and historical results of operations of the acquired entity have not been presented as we do not consider the results to have a material effect on any of the periods presented in our consolidated statements of operations. We are currently finalizing the allocation of the purchase price, which may be subject to change as additional information becomes available to us. 
    
  The following table sets forth the components of identifiable intangible assets acquired and their estimated useful lives as of the date of acquisition (in thousands, except useful life): 

SignalSense  
    
  On September 29, 2017, we acquired   100%   of the voting equity interest of SignalSense Inc. ( SignalSense ), a privately held Washington corporation that develops cloud-based data collection and breach detection solutions that leverage machine learning. This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination. The purchase price of   $12.2 million  , paid  
  
   78 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

in cash, was preliminarily allocated as follows:   $11.3 million   to identifiable intangible assets acquired,   $0.2 million   in net assets and   $2.0 million   to net deferred tax liabilities, with the excess   $2.7 million   of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is primarily attributable to the value expected from the synergies of the combination, including developing more advanced cloud and machine learning capabilities for our products, and is not deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations of the acquired entity, which are not material, have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of purchase. Pro forma and historical results of operations of the acquired entity have not been presented as we do not consider the results to have a material effect on any of the periods presented in our consolidated statements of operations. We are currently finalizing the allocation of the purchase price, which may be subject to change as additional information becomes available to us. 
    
  The following table sets forth the components of identifiable intangible assets acquired and their estimated useful lives as of the date of acquisition (in thousands, except useful life): 

Other Acquisitions 
    
  On May 15, 2017, we acquired   100%   of the voting equity interest of a privately-held Delaware corporation that develops technology for search-driven analytics on enterprise data. This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination. The purchase price of   $17.3 million  , paid in cash, was preliminarily allocated as follows:   $3.8 million   to identifiable intangible assets and   $0.5 million   to net deferred tax liability, with the excess   $14.0 million   of the purchase price over the fair value of net assets acquired recorded as goodwill. This goodwill is primarily attributable to the value expected from the synergies of the combination, including developing a more intuitive search experience for our products, and is not deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations of the acquired entity, which are not material, have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of purchase. Pro forma and historical results of operations of the acquired entity have not been presented as we do not consider the results to have a material effect on any of the periods presented in our consolidated statements of operations. We are still finalizing the allocation of the purchase price, which may be subject to change as additional information becomes available to us. 
    
  The following table sets forth the components of identifiable intangible assets acquired and their estimated useful lives as of the date of acquisition (in thousands, except useful life): 

Caspida 
    
    On July 9, 2015, we acquired   100%   of the voting equity interest of Caspida, Inc. ( Caspida ), a privately-held Delaware corporation, which develops technology that provides behavioral analytics to help detect, respond to and mitigate advanced security and insider security threats. This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination. The purchase price of   $128.4 million  , paid in cash, was preliminarily allocated as follows:   $45.8 million   to identifiable intangible assets,   $11.4 million   to net deferred tax liability and   $1.2 million   to net assets acquired, with the excess   $92.8 million   of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired recorded as goodwill, allocated to our   one   operating segment. Goodwill is primarily attributable to the value expected from the synergies of the combination, including combined selling opportunities with our products as well as our ability to sell into the security market. This goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations of Caspida, which are not material, have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of purchase.  
    
  Metafor Software 
       
  On June 23, 2015, we acquired   100%   of the voting equity interest of Metafor Software Inc., a privately-held British Columbia corporation, which develops technology that provides anomaly detection and behavioral analytics for IT operations.  
  
   79 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

This acquisition has been accounted for as a business combination. The purchase price of   $16.4 million  , paid in cash, was preliminarily allocated as follows:   $2.7 million   to identifiable intangible assets,   $0.5 million   to net assets acquired and   $0.1 million   to net deferred tax assets, with the excess   $13.1 million   of the purchase price over the fair value of net tangible and intangible assets acquired recorded as goodwill, allocated to our   one   operating segment. Goodwill is primarily attributable to the value expected from the synergies of the combination, including accelerating our anomaly detection capabilities for our core IT operations and security use cases. This goodwill is not deductible for income tax purposes. The results of operations of Metafor Software, which are not material, have been included in our consolidated financial statements from the date of purchase. Pro forma results of operations of Metafor Software have not been presented as we do not consider the results to have a material effect on any of the periods presented in our consolidated statements of operations.  
    
  Goodwill 
    
  There were no impairments to goodwill during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 or during prior periods. Goodwill balances are presented below (in thousands): 

Intangible Assets 
    
  Intangible assets subject to amortization realized from acquisitions as of   January 31, 2018   are as follows (in thousands, except useful life): 

Intangible assets subject to amortization realized from acquisitions as of January 31, 2017 are as follows (in thousands, except useful life): 

Additionally, we held   $1.3 million   of in-process research and development as of January 31, 2017. 
    
  Amortization expense from acquired intangible assets was   $13.5 million  ,   $11.9 million   and   $9.2 million   for the fiscal year ended January 31,   2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively.  
    
  The expected future amortization expense for acquired intangible assets as of   January 31, 2018   is as follows (in thousands): 
  
   80 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(6)  Debt Financing Facilities 
    
  On May 9, 2013 we entered into a Loan Agreement with Silicon Valley Bank, which was most recently amended in May 2017. As amended, the agreement provides for a revolving line of credit facility, which expires May 9, 2018. Under the agreement, we are able to borrow up to   $25 million  . Interest on any drawdown under the revolving line of credit accrues either at the prime rate (  4.50%   in January   2018  ) or the LIBOR rate plus   2.75%  . As of   January 31, 2018  , we had   no   balance outstanding under this agreement. The agreement includes customary financial covenants and restrictive covenants, in each case subject to certain exceptions, that limit our ability to: sell or otherwise dispose of our business or property; change our business, liquidate or dissolve or undergo a change in control; enter into mergers, consolidations and acquisitions; incur indebtedness; create liens; pay dividends or make distributions; make investments; enter into material transactions with affiliates; pay any subordinated debt or amend certain terms thereof; or become an investment company. We were in compliance with all covenants as of   January 31, 2018  . 

(7)  Stockholders  Equity 
    
  Common Stock 
    
  Our certificate of incorporation, as amended and restated, authorizes us to issue   1,000,000,000   shares of common stock,   $0.001   par value per share. At   January 31, 2018   and   January 31, 2017  ,   142,835,123   shares and   137,169,481   shares of common stock were issued and outstanding, respectively. 

(8)  Stock Compensation Plans 
    
  Equity Incentive Plans 
    
  In November 2003, our board adopted the 2003 Equity Incentive Plan (the  2003 Plan ). The 2003 Plan authorizes the granting of common stock options and restricted stock awards to employees, directors and consultants. 
    
  In January 2012, our board approved the 2012 Equity Incentive Plan (the  2012 Plan ), which became effective on April 18, 2012. The 2012 Plan provides for the grant of incentive stock options, within the meaning of Section 422 of the Internal Revenue Code, to our employees and any parent and subsidiary corporations  employees, and for the grant of nonstatutory stock options, restricted stock, restricted stock units, stock appreciation rights, performance units and performance shares to our employees, directors and consultants and any parent or subsidiary corporations  employees and consultants. Upon the effectiveness of the 2012 plan, all shares that were reserved but not issued under the 2003 Plan became available for issuance under the 2012 Plan and   no   further shares will be granted pursuant to the 2003 Plan. Canceled or forfeited equity awards under the 2003 Plan will also become available for issuance under the 2012 Plan. The term of an incentive stock option may not exceed   10 years  , except that with respect to any participant who owns more than   10%   of the voting power of all classes or our outstanding stock, the term must not exceed   5 years  . Options and RSUs generally vest over   4 years  . 
    
  The 2012 plan provides for annual automatic increases on February 1 to the shares reserved for issuance. The automatic increase of the number of shares available for issuance under the 2012 Plan is equal to the least of   10 million   shares,   5%   of the outstanding shares of common stock as of the last day of our immediately preceding fiscal year or such other amount as our board may determine.  
    
  The following table summarizes the stock option, RSU and PSU award activity during the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2017   and   2018  :  
  
   81 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(1)    The intrinsic value is calculated as the difference between the exercise price of the underlying stock option award and the closing market price of our common stock as of   January 31, 2018  . 
    
  During fiscal 2017 and 2018, upon each settlement date of our outstanding RSUs to current employees, RSUs were withheld to cover the required withholding tax, which was based on the value of the RSU on the settlement date as determined by the closing price of our common stock on the trading day of the applicable settlement date. The remaining shares were delivered to the recipient as shares of our common stock. The amount remitted to the tax authorities for the employees  tax obligation was reflected as a financing activity within our consolidated statements of cash flows. These shares withheld by us as a result of the net settlement of RSUs were not considered issued and outstanding, thereby reducing our shares outstanding used to calculate earnings per share. These shares were returned to the reserves and were available for future issuance under our 2012 Equity Incentive Plan.  
       
  During fiscal   2018   and   2017  , we granted   417,861   PSUs and   814,250   PSUs, respectively, to certain executives under our 2012 Equity Incentive Plan, which includes both PSUs awarded but not yet earned, as well as PSUs earned and eligible to vest. The number of PSUs earned and eligible to vest will be determined after a one-year performance period, based on achievement of certain company financial performance measures and the recipient s continued service with us. The number of shares of our stock to be received at vesting can range from   0%   to   200%   of the target amount. Compensation expense for PSUs is measured using the fair value at the date of grant and recorded over the vesting period under the graded-vesting attribution method, and may be adjusted over the vesting period based on interim estimates of performance against the pre-set objectives.  

82 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

At   January 31, 2018  , there was a total unrecognized compensation cost of   $0.7 million   related to stock options, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   0.8 years  . At   January 31, 2018  , there was a total unrecognized compensation cost of   $771.0 million   related to RSUs, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, which is expected to be recognized over the next   2.9 years  . At   January 31, 2018  , total unrecognized compensation cost was   $22.8   million related to PSUs, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, which is expected to be recognized over the next   2.5   years. Additionally, during the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016, we issued   671,782   RSAs as a result of an acquisition and at   January 31, 2018  , total unrecognized compensation cost was   $4.2 million   related to RSAs, adjusted for estimated forfeitures, which is expected to be recognized over the next   0.9   years. At   January 31, 2018  ,   422,426   RSAs were vested,   186,003   RSAs were forfeited and canceled and   63,353   RSAs were outstanding. 
    
  The aggregate intrinsic value of options exercised during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018  ,   2017  , and   2016   was   $93.5 million  ,   $83.5 million  , and   $162.3 million  , respectively. The weighted-average grant date fair value of options granted was   $67.81   per share for fiscal   2016  . The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSUs granted was   $76.40   per share for the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018  . The aggregate intrinsic value of RSUs vested during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018   was   $377.1 million  . The weighted-average grant date fair value of PSUs granted was   $60.25   per share for the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018  . The weighted-average grant date fair value of RSAs granted was   $69.00   per share for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2016. No RSAs were granted during the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018  . 
    
  Employee Stock Purchase Plan 
    
  Our 2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (the  ESPP ) allows eligible employees to purchase shares of our common stock at a discount through payroll deductions of up to   15%   of their eligible compensation, at not less than   85%   of the fair market value, as defined in the ESPP, subject to any plan limitations. The ESPP provides for consecutive   12  -month offering periods, starting on the first trading day on or after June 15 and December 15 of each year. The ESPP provides for an automatic increase of the number of shares available for issuance under the ESPP equal to the least of   4 million   shares,   2%   of the outstanding shares of our common stock on the last day of the immediately preceding fiscal year, or such other amount as may be determined by our board of directors.  
    
  Stock-Based Compensation Expense 
    
  Stock-based compensation expense related to our stock-based awards, employee stock purchases and restricted stock units was allocated as follows (in thousands): 

Valuation Assumptions 
    
  We estimated the fair values of each option awarded on the date of grant using the Black-Scholes option pricing model utilizing the assumptions noted below. The expected term of the options is based on the average period the stock options are expected to remain outstanding calculated as the midpoint of the options  vesting terms and contractual expiration periods, as we do not have sufficient historical information to develop reasonable expectations about future exercise patterns and post-vesting employment termination behavior. The expected stock price volatility for our stock was determined by examining the historical volatilities of a group of our industry peers as we do not have sufficient trading history of our common stock. The risk-free interest rate was calculated using the average of the published interest rates United States Treasury zero-coupon issues with maturities that approximate the expected term. The dividend yield assumption is   zero   as we do not have any history of, nor plans to make, dividend payments. 
    
  We did not grant any options to employees during the years ended   January 31, 2018   and   2017  . The following assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of options granted to employees:  

83 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Forfeitures were estimated at the time of grant and revised, if necessary, in subsequent periods if actual forfeitures differed from those estimates. Forfeitures were estimated based on historical experience. 
    
  The following assumptions were used to estimate the fair value of the ESPP: 

(9)  Geographic Information 
    
  Revenues 
    
  Revenues by geography are based on the shipping address of the customer. The following tables present our revenues by geographic region for the periods presented (in thousands): 

Other than the United States, no other individual country exceeded 10% of total revenues during any of the periods presented.   One   channel partner represented   30%   and a second channel partner represented   17%   of total revenues during fiscal   2018  . One channel partner represented   28%   and a second channel partner represented   16%   of total revenues during fiscal   2017  . One channel partner represented   14%   and a second channel partner represented   13%   of total revenues during fiscal   2016  . The revenues from these channel partners are comprised of a number of customer transactions, none of which were individually greater than 10% of total revenues during fiscal   2018  ,   2017   or   2016  .  
    
  Property and Equipment 
    
  The following tables present our property and equipment by geographic region for the periods presented (in thousands): 

Other than the United States,   no   other individual country exceeded   10%   of total property and equipment as of   January 31, 2018   or   2017  .  

(10)  Income Taxes 

84 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

Loss before income tax expense consists of the following for the periods shown below (in thousands): 

Income tax expense (benefit) consists of the following for the periods shown below (in thousands): 

Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 
       
  On December 22, 2017, the Tax Cuts and Jobs Act of 2017 (the  Act ) was enacted into law making significant changes to how the U.S. imposes income tax on multinational corporations. Changes include, but not limited to, a decrease in the corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%, effective for tax years after 2017 and a transition of the U.S. international taxation from a worldwide tax system to a territorial tax system by imposing a one-time mandatory repatriation of undistributed foreign earnings. We are required to recognize the effect of the Act in the period of enactment. Subsequent to the enactment of the Act, the SEC staff issued Staff Accounting Bulletin No. 118 ( SAB 118 ), which allows us to record provisional amounts during a measurement period not to extend more than one year beyond the enactment date.   
    
  In accordance with SAB 118, we have made reasonable estimates of the effects and recorded provisional amounts in our financial statements as of January 31, 2018. Accordingly, we have remeasured our deferred taxes as of   January 31, 2018   to reflect the reduced rate that will apply in future periods when these deferred taxes are settled or realized. The provisional amount related to the remeasurement of deferred taxes was   $230.1 million   and is offset by our valuation allowance. In addition, based on our initial assessment no transition tax is expected to be due upon the newly enacted legislation. As we complete our analysis with additional guidance and accounting interpretation to be issued over the next 12 months, we may make adjustments to these provisional amounts. We expect to complete our analysis in fiscal 2019. 
    
  The FASB released guidance on the accounting for tax on the global intangible low-taxed income ("GILTI") provision of the Act in January 2018. The GILTI provisions impose a tax on foreign income in excess of a deemed return on tangible assets of foreign corporations. We are currently evaluating the impact of the adoption of this standard on our consolidated financial statements and have not yet made a provisional estimate as we have not yet completed our assessment or elected an accounting policy to either recognize deferred taxes for basis differences expected to reverse as GILTI or to record GILTI as a period expense in the period the tax is incurred. 
    
  Tax Provision 
    
  For the fiscal year ended   January 31, 2018  , our tax provision consisted principally of foreign taxes from legal entities established in foreign jurisdictions and withholding taxes paid offset by a partial release of valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets from acquisitions. For the fiscal year ended January 31,   2017  , our tax provision consisted principally of federal and state taxes in the U.S. and foreign taxes from legal entities established in foreign jurisdictions and withholding taxes paid. For the fiscal year ended January 31,   2016  , our tax provision consisted principally of state taxes in the U.S. and foreign  
  
   85 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

taxes from legal entities established in foreign jurisdictions and withholding taxes paid offset by a partial release of valuation allowance on our U.S. deferred tax assets as a result of an acquisition during the 2016 fiscal year. 
    
  The reconciliation of federal statutory income tax rate to our effective income tax rate is as follows (in thousands): 

Deferred tax assets and liabilities consist of the following (in thousands): 

Net operating loss and tax credit carryforwards as of   January 31, 2018   are as follows (in thousands): 

ASC Topic 740, Income Taxes, requires that the tax benefit of net operating losses, temporary differences and credit carryforwards be recorded as an asset to the extent that we assess that realization is more likely than not. Realization of the future tax benefits is dependent on our ability to generate sufficient taxable income within the carryforward period. Due to our history of U.S. operating losses, we believe the recognition of the deferred tax assets arising from the above-mentioned future  
  
   86 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

tax benefits is currently not more likely than not to be realized and, accordingly, have provided a full valuation allowance against net U.S. deferred tax assets. The valuation allowance totaled   $551.4 million  ,   $356.8 million   and   $236.2 million   for fiscal   2018  ,   2017  , and   2016  , respectively. 
    
  The gross increase in the valuation allowance was   $194.6 million   between fiscal   2018   and   2017  . At   January 31, 2018  , we had federal and state net operating loss carryforwards of   $1.6 billion   and   $1.1 billion  , respectively. The net operating losses for federal and state purposes begin to expire starting in 2025 and 2019, respectively. The Act allows federal net operating losses generated for years ending after December 31, 2017 to be carried forward indefinitely. As a result of the Act,   $193.4 million   of the net operating losses from the 2018 fiscal year will not expire. Additionally, we had federal and state research and development tax credit carryforwards of   $100.4 million   and   $76.7 million   as of   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , respectively. Our federal tax credits will start to expire in 2026 if not utilized. At   January 31, 2018  , we also had   $2.3 million   of California Enterprise Zone credits. The California Enterprise Zone credits will expire in 2024 if not utilized.  
    
  If certain factors change, we may determine that there is sufficient positive evidence to support a reversal of, or decrease in, the valuation allowance. If we were to reverse all or some part of our valuation allowance, our consolidated financial statements in the period of reversal would likely reflect an increase in assets on our balance sheet and a corresponding tax benefit to our consolidated statements of operations in the amount of the reversal. 
    
  Because of certain prior period ownership changes, the utilization of a portion of our U.S. federal and state NOL and tax credit carryforwards may be limited.  
    
  We have not provided U.S. income taxes for the unremitted earnings of foreign subsidiaries because such earnings are intended to be reinvested in the foreign jurisdictions. As a result of the Act, we have accumulated deficits such that no transition tax is expected to be due upon newly enacted IRC 965.  
    
  Due to the adoption of ASU 2016-09, the excess tax benefits associated with stock-based compensation are recognized as income tax expense in our consolidated statements of operations.   
    
  As of   January 31, 2018  , our unrecognized tax benefits were   $31.8 million  , of which   $0.7 million   would, if recognized, impact our effective tax rate. The remainder will not, if recognized, affect the effective income tax rate due to the valuation allowance that currently offsets deferred tax assets. 
    
  Unrecognized tax benefit balances are presented below (in thousands): 

We are required to identify, evaluate and measure all uncertain tax positions taken or to be taken on tax returns and to record liabilities for the amount of these positions that may not be sustained, or may only partially be sustained, upon examination by the relevant taxing authorities. Although we believe that our estimates and judgments were reasonable, actual results may differ from these estimates. Some or all of these judgments are subject to review by the taxing authorities. 
    
  We are subject to income taxes in United States federal and various state and local jurisdictions. Generally, we are no longer subject to United States federal, state and local tax examinations for tax years ended before January 31, 2014. However, to the extent allowed by law, the tax authorities may have the right to examine prior periods where net operating losses or tax credits were generated and carried forward, and make adjustments up to the amount of the net operating loss or credit carryforward. 
       
  The amount of unrecognized tax benefits could be reduced upon filing of an Application for Change In Accounting Method with the Internal Revenue Service. We estimate that our potential reduction in unrecognized tax benefits during the next 12 months to be   $6.0 million  . 

87 

     Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

We accrue interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of income tax expense. As of   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , there was accrued interest and penalties of   $0.1   million. 

(11)  Net Loss Per Share 
    
  Basic net loss per share is computed by dividing the net loss by the weighted-average number of shares of common stock outstanding during the period, less the weighted-average unvested common stock subject to repurchase or forfeiture. Diluted net loss per share is computed by giving effect to all potential shares of common stock, including preferred stock, stock options, RSUs, PSUs and RSAs, to the extent dilutive. 
    
  The following table sets forth the computation of historical basic and diluted net loss per share (in thousands, except per share data): 

Since we were in a net loss position for all periods presented, basic net loss per share is the same as diluted net loss per share for all periods as the inclusion of all potentially dilutive securities outstanding would have been anti-dilutive. Potentially dilutive securities that were not included in the diluted per share calculations because they would be anti-dilutive were as follows (in thousands): 

(12)  Related Party Transactions 
    
  Certain members of our board of directors ( Board ) serve on the board of directors of and/or are executive officers of, and, in some cases, are investors in, companies that are customers or vendors of ours. Certain of our executive officers also serve on the board of directors of companies that are customers or vendors of ours. All contracts with related parties are executed in the ordinary course of business. We recognized revenue from sales to these companies of   $13.3 million  ,   $7.3 million  , and   $5.1 million   for the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. There were $  0.9 million   and   $1.9 million   in accounts receivable due from these companies as of   January 31, 2018   and   2017  , respectively. We also recorded   $1.8 million  ,   $0.4 million  , and   $2.3 million   in expenses related to purchases from these companies during the fiscal years ended   January 31, 2018  ,   2017   and   2016  , respectively. There were   $0.3 million   in accounts payable due to these companies as of   January 31, 2018  , and no accounts payable to these companies as of   January 31, 2017  . 
  
   88 

Table of Contents  
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 

(13)  Subsequent Event  
    
  On February 27, 2018, we entered into a definitive agreement to acquire Phantom Cyber Corporation, a privately-held Delaware company, which develops solutions for security orchestration, automation and response in exchange for total consideration of approximately   $350.0 million  , subject to adjustment. The acquisition will be accounted for as a business combination and accordingly, the total purchase price will be allocated to the tangible and intangible assets acquired and the liabilities assumed based on their respective fair values on the acquisition date. We have not yet determined the purchase price allocation for the transaction. The acquisition is expected to close during the first half of calendar year 2018, subject to customary closing conditions and regulatory reviews. 

Item 9.  Changes in and Disagreements with Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure 
    
    None. 

Item 9A.  Controls and Procedures 
    
  Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures 
    
  Our management, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer and our Chief Financial Officer, evaluated the effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures as of   January 31, 2018  . The term  disclosure controls and procedures,  as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Exchange Act, means controls and other procedures of a company that are designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported, within the time periods specified in the SEC s rules and forms. Disclosure controls and procedures include, without limitation, controls and procedures designed to ensure that information required to be disclosed by a company in the reports that it files or submits under the Exchange Act is accumulated and communicated to the company s management, including its principal executive and principal financial officers, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure. Based on the evaluation of our disclosure controls and procedures as of   January 31, 2018  , our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer concluded that, as of such date, our disclosure controls and procedures were effective at the reasonable assurance level.  
    
  Management s Annual Report on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
    
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting, as defined in Rule 13a-15(f) of the Exchange Act. Our management conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting based on the criteria set forth in   Internal Control Integrated Framework   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission (2013 framework). Based on this evaluation, management concluded that our internal control over financial reporting was effective as of   January 31, 2018  . 
    
  The effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   January 31, 2018   has been audited by PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, as stated in their report which is included in Item 8 of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
    
  Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting 
    
  There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting identified in connection with the evaluation required by Rule 13a-15(d) and 15d-15(d) of the Exchange Act that occurred during the quarter ended   January 31, 2018   that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, our internal control over financial reporting. 
    
  Inherent Limitations on Effectiveness of Controls 
    
  Our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, believes that our disclosure controls and procedures and internal control over financial reporting are designed to provide reasonable assurance of achieving their objectives and are effective at the reasonable assurance level. However, our management does not expect that our disclosure controls and procedures or our internal control over financial reporting will prevent all errors and all fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. Further, the design of a control system must reflect the fact that there are resource constraints, and the benefits of controls must be considered relative to their costs. Because of the inherent limitations in all control systems, no evaluation of controls can provide absolute assurance that all control issues and instances of fraud, if any, have been detected.  
  
   89 

     Table of Contents  

These inherent limitations include the realities that judgments in decision-making can be faulty, and that breakdowns can occur because of a simple error or mistake. Additionally, controls can be circumvented by the individual acts of some persons, by collusion of two or more people or by management override of the controls. The design of any system of controls also is based in part upon certain assumptions about the likelihood of future events, and there can be no assurance that any design will succeed in achieving its stated goals under all potential future conditions; over time, controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or the degree of compliance with policies or procedures may deteriorate. Because of the inherent limitations in a cost-effective control system, misstatements due to error or fraud may occur and not be detected. 
  
   90 

Table of Contents  

Item 9B.  Other Information 
    
  None. 
  
   91 

Table of Contents  

PART III 

Item 10.  Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance 
    
  Executive Officers and Directors 
  Information responsive to this item is incorporated herein by reference to our definitive proxy statement with respect to our   2018   Annual Meeting of Stockholders to be filed with the SEC within 120 days after the end of the fiscal year covered by this annual report on Form 10-K (the  Proxy Statement ). 
    
  As part of our system of corporate governance, our board of directors has adopted a code of business conduct and ethics. The code applies to all of our employees, officers (including our principal executive officer, principal financial officer, principal accounting officer or controller, or persons performing similar functions), agents and representatives, including our independent directors and consultants, who are not employees of the Company, with regard to their Splunk-related activities. Our code of business conduct and ethics is available on our website at   http://investors.splunk.com/corporate-governance  . We will post on this section of our website any amendment to our code of business conduct and ethics, as well as any waivers of our code of business conduct and ethics, that are required to be disclosed by the rules of the SEC or the NASDAQ Stock Market. 

Item 11.  Executive Compensation 
       
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Executive Compensation  and  Corporate Governance at Splunk   Non-Employee Director Compensation  in our Proxy Statement. 

Item 12.  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder Matters 
    
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Stock Ownership Information   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management,  and  Executive Compensation  Compensation Tables   Equity Compensation Plan Information  in our Proxy Statement. 

Item 13.  Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence 
    
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Corporate Governance at Splunk   Related Party and Other Transactions  and  Corporate Governance at Splunk   Director Independence  in our Proxy Statement. 

Item 14.  Principal Accountant Fees and Services 
    
  The information required by this Item is incorporated herein by reference to the sections entitled  Audit Committee Matters   Fees Paid to the Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  and "Audit Committee Matters   Audit Committee Policy on Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm" in our Proxy Statement. 

92 

Table of Contents  

PART IV 

Item 15.  Exhibits and Financial Statement Schedules 
    
  Documents filed as part of this report are as follows:  
    
           1. 
    Consolidated Financial Statements: Our Consolidated Financial Statements are listed in the  Index to Consolidated Financial Statements  Under Part II, Item 8 of this report.  
              2. 
    Financial Statement Schedules: Financial statement schedules have been omitted because they are not applicable or the required information is shown in the Consolidated Financial Statements or Notes thereto.  
              3. 
    Exhibits: The documents listed in the Exhibit Index of this report are incorporated by reference or are filed with this report, in each case as indicated therein (numbered in accordance with Item 601 of Regulation S-K). 
       
  Item 16.  Form 10-K Summary 
    
  Not applicable. 

93 

     Table of Contents  

EXHIBIT 
    
  INDEX 
    
                   Exhibit 
  Number 
      
    Description 

3.1  
      
     Amended and Restated Certificate of Incorporation of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on June 13, 2012).  

3.2  
      
     Amended and Restated Bylaws of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 3.1 filed with the Registrant s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on October 4, 2017).  

4.1  
      
     Specimen common stock certificate of the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 4.1 filed with the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on April 6, 2012).  

10.1#  
      
     Form of Indemnification Agreement between the Registrant and its directors and officers (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on January 12, 2012).  

10.2#  
      
     2003 Equity Incentive Plan, as amended, and Forms of Stock Option Agreement under 2003 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on January 12, 2012).  

10.3#  
      
     2012 Equity Incentive Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.3 filed with the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on April 6, 2012).  

10.4#  
      
     Amendment to 2012 Equity Incentive Plan, effective as of September 14, 2017 (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on December 6, 2017).  

10.5#  
      
     2012 Employee Stock Purchase Plan (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.4 filed with the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on April 6, 2012).  

10.6  
      
     Office Lease, dated as of March 6, 2008, as amended, between Brannan Propco, LLC and the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.5 filed with the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on January 12, 2012).  

10.7  
      
     First Amendment to Office Lease, dated as of June 10, 2011, between Kilroy Realty, L.P. and the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.6 filed with the Registrant s Registration Statement on Form S-1 filed on January 12, 2012).  

10.8  
      
     Second Amendment to Office Lease, dated as of November 20, 2012, between Kilroy Realty, L.P. and Splunk Inc. (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Company s Current Report on Form 8-K filed on November 26, 2012).  

10.9  
      
     Third Amendment to Office Lease, dated as of December 11, 2015, between Kilroy Realty, L.P. and the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on September 8, 2016).  

10.10  
      
     Office Lease, dated as of April 29, 2014, between 270 Brannan Street, LLC and the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.2 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on June 9, 2014).  

10.11  
      
     Office Lease, dated as of August 24, 2015, between FRIT San Jose Town and Country Village, LLC and the Registrant (incorporated by reference to Exhibit 10.1 filed with the Registrant s Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q filed on December 10, 2015).  

94 

     Table of Contents  

95 

     Table of Contents  

31.2  
      
     Certification of Principal Financial Officer Required Under Rule 13a-14(a) and 15d-14(a) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended.  

32.1  
      
     Certification of Principal Executive Officer and Principal Financial Officer Required Under Rule 13a-14(b) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, and 18 U.S.C.  1350.  

101.INS 
      
    XBRL Instance Document 

101.SCH 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Schema Linkbase Document 

101.CAL 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Calculation Linkbase Document 

101.DEF 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Definition Linkbase Document 

101.LAB 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Labels Linkbase Document 

101.RE 
      
    XBRL Taxonomy Presentation Linkbase Document 

# 
      
    Indicates management contract or compensatory plan. 

96 

Table of Contents  

SIGNATURES 
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, on March 30, 2018. 
                     
    SPLUNK INC. 

By: 
    /s/ Douglas S. Merritt 

Douglas S. Merritt President and Chief Executive Officer 

97 

     Table of Contents  

POWER OF ATTORNEY 
  KNOW ALL THESE PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS, that each person whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints Douglas S. Merritt and David F. Conte, and each of them, his or her attorneys-in-fact, each with full power of substitution, for him or her in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K, and to file the same, with exhibits thereto and other documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, hereby ratifying and confirming all that each said attorneys-in-fact or his or her substitute or substitutes, may do or cause to be done by virtue hereof. 
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this Annual Report on Form 10-K has been signed below by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities and on the dates indicated. 
  
   98 

     Table of Contents  

Signature 
    Title 
    Date 

/s/ Douglas S. Merritt 
    President and Chief Executive Officer (Principal Executive Officer) 
    March 30, 2018 
      Douglas S. Merritt 

/s/ David F. Conte 
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 
    March 30, 2018 
      David F. Conte 

/s/ Godfrey R. Sullivan 
    Chairman and Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      Godfrey R. Sullivan 

/s/ Mark T. Carges 
    Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      Mark T. Carges 

/s/ Sara J. Baack 
    Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      Sara J. Baack 

/s/ John G. Connors 
    Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      John G. Connors 

/s/ Elisa A. Steele 
    Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      Elisa A. Steele 

/s/ Patricia B. Morrison 
    Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      Patricia B. Morrison 

/s/ Thomas M. Neustaetter 
    Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      Thomas M. Neustaetter 

/s/ Stephen G. Newberry 
    Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      Stephen G. Newberry 

/s/ Graham V. Smith 
    Director 
    March 30, 2018 
      Graham V. Smith 

99 

<EX-10.20>
 2
 ex-1020013118.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.20

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.20    
  January 8, 2018 
  Richard Campione 
  c/o Splunk Inc. 
  270 Brannan Street 
  San Francisco, CA 94107 
  Re: Transition Plan and Release Agreement 
  Dear Richard, 
  Thank you for all your work on behalf of Splunk.  We wish you all the best as you move forward.  This letter and the enclosed Release Agreement set forth our agreements regarding your transition and termination of employment with Splunk Inc. (   Splunk    or the    Company   ).  This letter explains your rights and obligations and those of the Company during your employment and upon termination of your employment.  The Release Agreement shall govern any conflict with the contents of this letter. 
  We have agreed that you will remain an employee of Splunk and your employment will terminate, pursuant to the terms of the attached Release Agreement, effective on the close of business on January 31, 2018 (your    Termination Date   ), subject to paragraph 3 below.  Prior to your Termination Date: 
    
           1. 
    Between the date of this letter through the Termination Date, you will continue to be paid your current annualized base salary of $400,000.  You will continue to participate in Splunk s equity plans in which you are currently participating, and the equity awards you previously received will continue to vest in accordance with the terms of the applicable equity plan.  You will also continue to participate in Splunk s fiscal year 2018 annual executive bonus plan (the  FY 2018 Bonus Plan ) and benefit plans in which you are currently participating; 
       
           2. 
    You acknowledge that the amounts stated in paragraph (1) above comprise all salary, bonus, compensation and benefits that will be payable or provided to you as a result of your continued employment with Splunk, and you are not eligible to receive any compensation or benefits under any other Company plan or program.  All amounts will be paid in accordance with Splunk s standard practices, and less deductions and withholdings; 
       
           3. 
    You will remain an  at will  employee, which means that either you or Splunk may terminate your employment at any time, with or without cause and with or without reason.  You must comply with all applicable Splunk policies and practices (including, but not limited to, the Code of Business Conduct and Ethics and Insider Trading Policy), and the terms of the attached Release Agreement both prior to and after your Termination Date, as applicable; 
       
           4. 
    Prior to the Termination Date you will, as requested, remain available in person, by phone and electronic means and provide reasonable and timely assistance to answer questions and transition your duties and responsibilities; and 
       
           5. 
    Both prior to and after the Termination Date, you agree that at the Company s request, you will provide reasonable assistance to the Company or any associated company in any threatened or actual litigation, arbitration, investigation or regulatory proceeding concerning it or them where you have knowledge of any facts or other matters which the Company or any associated company reasonably considers is relevant to such legal proceedings (including but not limited to giving statements, affidavits, testimony, meeting with legal and other professional advisers, attending interviews, hearings and giving evidence).  The Company will, to the extent permitted by law and applicable court rules, reimburse you for reasonable out-of-pocket expenses you incur in extending such cooperation, in accordance with the Company s Travel and Expense Policy. 
     Effective on your Termination Date, you will no longer be an employee of the Company.  If you comply with the foregoing and sign the Release Agreement on your Termination Date and return it to me by noon PT on that date, you will receive the severance benefits described below (the    Severance Benefits   ).  By signing below, you acknowledge that the period during which you have to sign the Release Agreement is greater than the twenty-one (21) days within which to consider this Agreement as prescribed under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (   ADEA   ) with respect to claims being released thereunder.  If the Company does not receive the signed Release Agreement as described above, you will not receive any Severance Benefits.  Each of the following will constitute the Severance Benefits and will be paid or provided in accordance with Splunk s standard  

practices and less deductions and withholdings, on the first Company payroll date practicable following the effectiveness of the Release Agreement, except as otherwise provided below: 

2. 
    A lump sum payment equal to the unpaid portion of your bonus under the FY 2018 Bonus Plan based on actual achievement of the applicable performance metrics for fiscal 2018, which will paid to you at the same time as bonuses under the FY 2018 Bonus Plan are paid to the Company s other senior executive officers participating in the FY 2018 Bonus Plan, but in no event later than April 15, 2018.  You acknowledge that your annual target bonus for fiscal 2018 is $280,000 and you previously received a mid-year bonus of $140,000 under the FY 2018 Bonus Plan.  
       
           3. 
    Your coverage under the Splunk group health plans is scheduled to end on January 31, 2018.  However, you will have the opportunity to continue the benefits under the Splunk group health plans under the Consolidated Omnibus Budget Reconciliation Act of 1985 ( COBRA ) to the same extent previously provided, for six (6) months, through July 31, 2018, or until you become eligible for group health insurance benefits from another employer or entity, whichever occurs first.  You understand that you must inform Splunk if you receive group health coverage from another employer or entity before July 31, 2018, and that you may not increase the number of designated dependents, if any, during this time unless you do so at your own expense.  The period of such Splunk-paid COBRA coverage shall be considered part of your COBRA coverage entitlement period, and may, for tax purposes, be considered income to you.  This benefit will only be provided to the extent allowable by law.  If such payment of COBRA premiums would result in a Splunk excise tax, then no such premiums will be paid, and if doing so would not cause imposition of an excise tax you will be paid a single lump sum of $12,000.  You have been advised by Splunk to consult with Discovery Benefits or an advisor of your choice regarding COBRA continuation coverage or other coverage options through the Health Insurance Marketplace, Medicaid or other group health plan coverage options (such as a spouse s plan) through what is called a  special enrollment  period.  Splunk does not guarantee or imply that a  special enrollment  period or an  open enrollment  period will be available to you on, or shortly after July 31, 2018; 
       
           4. 
    Acceleration of vesting as to six (6) months of shares subject to all Splunk equity awards which have been granted to you (the    Equity     Awards   ).  With respect to the Splunk performance stock units that were granted to you during fiscal 2018 (the    PSU   ), the PSU shall be treated pursuant to the terms of the PSU agreement, such that (a) the number of shares that will become earned and eligible to vest under the PSU agreement and the vesting provisions in the previous sentence will be calculated based on actual performance during fiscal 2018 as determined by the compensation committee of the Company s board of directors following the completion of the Company s annual financial statement audit for fiscal 2018, which is expected to occur in late March 2018 (such date, the    Determination     Date   ) and (b) the  Vesting Commencement Date  for such earned PSU shares will be March 10, 2018.  For the avoidance of doubt, any shares subject to Equity Awards (including the PSU) that (x) otherwise are scheduled to vest after July 31, 2018 shall not vest and shall be cancelled on the Termination Date and (y) with respect to the PSU, are not earned as determined by the Committee shall be cancelled on the Determination Date.  For a summary of the vested and forfeited shares subject to Equity Awards, please see   Schedule 1  ; 
       
           5. 
    Outplacement services for up to six (6) months following your Termination Date will be provided by an outplacement services firm selected by Splunk.  Splunk will pay the outplacement services firm directly; 
       
           6. 
    If, prior to the Termination Date, you are terminated for Cause (as that term is defined in your Offer Letter dated October 12, 2016) (the    Employment Letter   ), you will forfeit your right to receive the Severance Benefits; and 
       
           7. 
    Effective as of your Termination Date, your Employment Letter shall terminate, however paragraphs 5 (Confidentiality); 6 (At-Will Employment); 8 (Section 409A Matters); 9 (Definitions); 11 (Policies); and 12 (Arbitration) shall continue in full force and effect, except as specifically modified by the Release Agreement. 
     Please note that your obligations under your Employee Invention Assignment and Confidentiality Agreement remain in effect.  We have enclosed a copy of that signed Agreement in Attachment 2 to the Release Agreement. 

Splunk thanks you for your contributions and wishes you well in your future pursuits. 
  Very truly yours, 
    
  /s/ Tracy Edkins 

Tracy Edkins 
  Chief Human Resources Officer 
  Acknowledged and Agreed: 
    
  /s/ Richard Campione       
  Richard Campione 
  Dated:   1.8.18 

SCHEDULE 1 
  EQUITY AWARDS 
  The chart below shows the number of shares subject to your outstanding Equity Awards that are vested and unvested as of the Termination Date, and including amounts that vest in accordance with the accelerated vesting provisions described in paragraph 5 of the Transition Plan and Release Agreement.  With respect to the PSU, the numbers in the table below show the target number of shares.  As described in paragraph 5 of the Transition Plan and Release Agreement, the actual number of shares that may be earned and become vested will be based on actual performance of the applicable performance metrics for fiscal 2018 as determined by the Committee (such process, the  Performance Goal Determination ). 

* The actual number of shares covered by the PSU that will be earned and vested may be higher or lower depending on the Performance Goal Determination. 
  ** The actual number of shares covered by the PSU that will be forfeited on the Determination Date will be based on the Performance Goal Determination. 

RELEASE AGREEMENT 
  I, Richard Campione give this general release in consideration of the agreements by Splunk Inc. ( Splunk ) set forth in the letter dated January 8, 2018 (attached hereto as Attachment 1) (the  Transition Letter ), including without limitation, the provision of the Severance Benefits (as defined therein). 
  RELEASE 
           1. 
    Release of All Claims  .  On behalf of my heirs, spouse and assigns, I hereby completely release and forever discharge Splunk, its past and present parent companies, subsidiaries, affiliates, related entities, and each of their past and present agents, officers, directors, shareholders, employees, attorneys, insurers, successors and assigns (collectively referred to as the  Company ) from any and all claims, of any and every kind, nature and character, known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen, based on any act or omission occurring prior to the date of this Release Agreement, to the fullest extent allowed by law, including but not limited to any claims arising out of my offer of employment, my employment, my compensation, or termination of my employment with Splunk. The matters released include, but are not limited to, any claims under federal, state or local laws, including claims arising under the Age Discrimination in Employment Act of 1967 (   ADEA   ) as amended by the Older Workers  Benefit Protection Act (   OWBPA   ), and any common law tort, contract or statutory claims, and any claims for attorneys  fees and costs.  This Release Agreement does not release claims that cannot be released as a matter of law, including, but not necessarily limited to, any Protected Activity (as defined below), nor any indemnification rights available under any indemnification agreement I signed with the Company that is in effect immediately prior to my Termination Date, Company Bylaws, or under applicable law (collectively, the    Indemnification Rights   ). Nothing in this Release Agreement shall be construed to prohibit me from filing a charge with a federal, state or local agency or participating in any investigation or proceeding conducted by a government agency.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, to the maximum extent permitted by law, I agree to waive my right to recover monetary damages from the Company in any charge, complaint, or lawsuit filed by me or by anyone else on my behalf for any released claims.  Further, claims challenging the validity of this Release Agreement under the ADEA as amended by the OWBPA are not released. 
       
           1. 
    Waiver of Unknown Claims  .  I understand and agree that this Release Agreement extinguishes all claims, whether known or unknown, foreseen or unforeseen.  I expressly waive any rights or benefits under Section 1542 of the California Civil Code, or any equivalent statute.  California Civil Code Section 1542 provides as follows: 
       
  A general release does not extend to claims which the creditor does not know or suspect to exist in his or her favor at the time of executing the release, which if known by him or her must have materially affected his or her settlement with the debtor  . 
    
  I fully understand that, if any fact with respect to any matter covered by this Release Agreement is found hereafter to be other than or different from the facts now believed by me to be true, I expressly accept and assume that this Release Agreement shall be and remain effective, notwithstanding such difference in the facts. 
    
           2. 
    Enforcement of This Release Agreement  .  I also understand and agree that if any suit, affirmative defense, or counterclaim is brought to enforce the provisions of this Release Agreement, with the exception of a claim brought by me as to the validity of this Release Agreement under the ADEA as amended by the OWBPA, the prevailing party shall be entitled to its costs, expenses, and attorneys  fees as well as any and all other remedies specifically authorized under the law. 
       
           3. 
    Representation Concerning Filing of Legal Actions; Covenant Not to Sue  .  I represent that, as of the date of this Release Agreement, I have not filed any lawsuits, charges, complaints, petitions, claims or other accusatory pleadings against the Company in any court or with any governmental agency.  To the maximum extent permitted by applicable law, I agree not to pursue any action nor seek damages or any other remedies for any released claims.  I agree to execute any and all documents necessary to request dismissal or withdrawal, or to opt-out of such claims, with prejudice. 
       
           4. 
    No Disparagement  .  Subject to Section 7 below, I agree not to make any voluntary statements, written or oral, or cause or encourage others to make any such statements that defame, disparage or criticize the personal and/or business reputations, practices or conduct of the Company or its employees.  This Section 5 shall not apply to communications with government agencies. 
       
           5. 
    Return of Splunk Property  .  By signing this Release Agreement, I represent and warrant that     I have returned to Splunk on the date of the Transition Letter, all Splunk materials, documents containing confidential, proprietary or trade secret information (regardless of the media or forum on which they are kept) including all copies and excerpts of the same, and property and equipment, including but not limited to laptop computers and other devices, corporate credit cards, building keys or access  

cards (with the exception of a copy of the Employee Handbook and personnel documents specifically relating to me).  In addition, I represent and warrant that on the date of the Transition Letter, I personally deleted, erased and/or permanently removed any and all Splunk information from all personal computers, tablets, mobile phones and other electronic devices, physical and virtual databases, and all other locations, and permanently disable access to any Splunk repositories, databases or directories (including, without limitation, Box, Perforce, Stash, Jenkins, Confluence, JIRA, GitHub, Apttus, Salesforce, etc.) through my personal account or device. 
    
           6. 
    Protected Activity Not Prohibited  . I understand that nothing in this Agreement shall in any way limit or prohibit me from engaging in any Protected Activity. For purposes of this Agreement,    Protected Activity    shall mean filing a charge, complaint, or report with, or otherwise communicating, cooperating, or participating in any investigation or proceeding that may be conducted by, any federal, state or local government agency or commission, including the Securities and Exchange Commission, the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission, the Occupational Safety and Health Administration, and the National Labor Relations Board (   Government     Agencies   ). I understand that in connection with such Protected Activity, I am permitted to disclose documents or other information as permitted by law, and without giving notice to, or receiving authorization from, Splunk. Notwithstanding the foregoing, I agree to take all reasonable precautions to prevent any unauthorized use or disclosure of any information that may constitute Company confidential information under the Employee Invention Assignment and Confidentiality Agreement,     attached hereto in Attachment 2, which remains in full force and effect, to any parties other than the Government Agencies. I further understand that  Protected Activity  does not include the disclosure of any Company attorney-client privileged communications. Any language in the Employee Invention Assignment and Confidentiality Agreement regarding my right to engage in Protected Activity that conflicts with, or is contrary to, this paragraph is superseded by this Agreement. In addition, pursuant to the Defend Trade Secrets Act of 2016, I am notified that an individual will not be held criminally or civilly liable under any federal or state trade secret law for the disclosure of a trade secret that (i) is made in confidence to a federal, state, or local government official (directly or indirectly) or to an attorney   solely   for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law, or (ii) is made in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, if (and only if) such filing is made under seal. In addition, an individual who files a lawsuit for retaliation by an employer for reporting a suspected violation of law may disclose the trade secret to the individual s attorney and use the trade secret information in the court proceeding, if the individual files any document containing the trade secret under seal and does not disclose the trade secret, except pursuant to court order. 
       
           7. 
    Miscellaneous  .      I acknowledge that during my employment I obtained confidential, proprietary and trade secret information, including information relating to Splunk s products, plans, designs, employees, agents, consultants and other valuable confidential information.  I agree not to use or disclose any such confidential information unless required by subpoena or court order, and I will first give Splunk written notice of such subpoena or court order with reasonable advance notice to permit Splunk to oppose such subpoena or court order if it chooses to do so. 
       
  I also agree that for a period of one (1) year after the termination of my employment with Splunk, I shall not solicit or attempt to solicit any employee, agent or consultant of Splunk to terminate his or her employment with or services to Splunk.  Splunk and I agree that the provisions of this paragraph contain restrictions that are not greater than necessary to protect the interests of Splunk.  In the event of the breach or threatened breach by me of this paragraph, Splunk, in addition to all other remedies available to it at law or in equity, will be entitled to seek injunctive relief and/or specific performance to enforce this paragraph. 
    
           8. 
    Confidentiality  .  I agree that I will not disclose voluntarily or allow anyone else to disclose either the existence, reason for or contents of this Release Agreement without Splunk s prior written consent, unless required to do so by law.  Notwithstanding this provision, I am authorized to disclose this Release Agreement to my spouse, attorneys and tax advisors on a  need to know  basis, on the condition that they agree to hold the terms of the Release Agreement, including the settlement payments, in strictest confidence.  I am further authorized to make appropriate disclosures as required by law, provided that I notify Splunk in writing of such legal obligations to disclose at least five (5) business days in advance of disclosure. 
       
           9. 
    Severability  .  In the event any provision of this Release Agreement shall be found unenforceable by an arbitrator or a court of competent jurisdiction, the provision shall be deemed modified to the extent necessary to allow enforceability of the provision as so limited, it being intended that Splunk shall receive the benefits contemplated herein to the fullest extent permitted by law.  If a deemed modification is not satisfactory in the judgment of such arbitrator or court, the unenforceable provision shall be deemed deleted, and the validity and enforceability of the remaining provisions shall not be affected thereby. 
       
           10. 
    Entire Agreement  .  This Release Agreement constitutes the entire agreement between myself and Splunk with respect to any matters referred to in the Release Agreement.  The Release Agreement supersedes any and all other agreements between myself and Splunk, except for the Transition Letter, the Employee Invention Assignment and Confidentiality Agreement, the agreements and plan governing the Equity Awards (as defined in the Transition Letter), and the Indemnification Rights.  No  

other consideration, agreements, representations, oral statements, understandings or course of conduct which are not expressly set forth in the Release Agreement shall be implied or are binding.  The Release Agreement may only be modified in a writing signed by myself and an authorized representative of Splunk.  I am not relying upon any other agreement, representation, statement, omission, understanding, or course of conduct which is not expressly set forth in this Release Agreement.  I understand and agree that neither this Release Agreement nor any part thereof shall be deemed or construed at any time or for any purpose as an admission of any liability or wrongdoing by either myself or Splunk.  The terms and conditions of this Release Agreement will be interpreted and construed in accordance with the laws of California. 
  I have read this Release Agreement and understand all of its terms.  Prior to signing this Release Agreement, I have apprised myself of sufficient relevant information in order that I might intelligently exercise my own judgment.  Splunk has informed me in writing to consult an attorney before signing this Release Agreement, if I wish.  Splunk and I agree that any later agreed-upon changes to this Release Agreement do not restart the running of the twenty-one (21) day period.  Once this signed Release Agreement is returned to Splunk (Attention: Leonard Stein), I can revoke it by notifying Leonard Stein, in writing via hand delivery, email or fax no later than seven (7) days following my execution of this Release Agreement.  Splunk must receive the revocation by 5:00 pm on the seventh day in order for the revocation to be effective.  This Release Agreement shall not become effective or enforceable until such revocation period has expired.  I acknowledge and agree that this Release Agreement is executed voluntarily and with full knowledge of its legal significance. 

EMPLOYEE S ACCEPTANCE OF RELEASE AGREEMENT 
  I HAVE CAREFULLY READ AND FULLY UNDERSTAND AND VOLUNTARILY AGREE TO ALL THE TERMS OF THE RELEASE AGREEMENT IN EXCHANGE FOR THE SEVERANCE BENEFITS TO WHICH I WOULD OTHERWISE NOT BE ENTITLED.   
  1.31.18            /s/ Richard Campione       
  Dated        Richard Campione 
  (Must be signed and returned before noon, PT on January 31, 2018)     

ATTACHMENT 1 
  Transition Plan and Release Agreement Letter 
  Dated January 8, 2018 
  [  See Above  ] 

ATTACHMENT 2 
    
  EMPLOYEE INVENTION ASSIGNMENT AND  
  CONFIDENTIALITY AGREEMENT 

In consideration of, and as a condition of my employment with Splunk Inc., a Delaware corporation (the "Company'), I hereby represent to, and agree with the Company as follows: 
    
  1.  Purpose of Agreement  .   I understand that the Company is engaged in a continuous program of research, development, production and marketing in connection with its business and that it is critical for the Company to preserve and protect its   "Proprietary Information"   (as defined in Section 7 below), its rights in "Inventions" (as defined in Section 2 below) and in all related intellectual property rights. Accordingly, I am entering into this Employee Invention Assignment and Confidentiality Agreement (this   "Agreement')   as a condition of my employment with the Company, whether or not I am expected to create inventions of value for the Company. 
    
  2.  Disclosure of Inventions  .   I will promptly disclose in confidence to the Company all inventions, improvements, designs, original works of authorship, formulas, processes, compositions of matter, computer software programs, databases, mask works and trade secrets that I make or conceive or first reduce to practice or create, either alone or jointly with others, during the period of my employment, whether or not in the course of my employment, and whether or not patentable, copyrightable or protectable as trade secrets  (the   "Inventions"). 
    
  3.  Work for Hire; Assignment of Inventions  .   l acknowledge and agree that any copyrightable works prepared by me within the scope of my employment are "works for hire" under the Copyright Act and that the Company will be considered the author and owner of such copyrightable works. I agree that all Inventions that (i) are developed using equipment, supplies, facilities or trade secrets of the Company, (ii) result from work performed by me for the Company, or (iii) relate to the Company's business or current or anticipated research and development (the   "Assigned Inventions"),   will be the sole and exclusive property of the Company and are hereby irrevocably assigned by me to the Company. Attached hereto as   Exhibit A     is a list describing all inventions, original works of authorship, developments and trade secrets which were made by me prior to the date of this Agreement, which belong to me and which are not assigned to the Company   ("Prior Inventions").   If no such list is attached, I represent that there are no such Prior Inventions. I acknowledge and agree that if I use any of my Prior Inventions in the scope of my employment, or include them in any product or service of the Company, I hereby grant to the Company a perpetual, irrevocable, nonexclusive, worldwide, royalty free license to use, disclose, make, sell, copy, distribute, modify and create works based on, perform or display such Prior Inventions and to sublicense third parties with the same rights. 
    
  4.  Labor Code Section 2870 Notice  .   l have been notified and understand that the provisions of Sections 3 and 5 of this Agreement do not apply to any Assigned Invention that qualifies fully under the provisions of Section 2870 of the California Labor Code, which states as follows: 
    
  ANY PROVISION IN AN EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT WHICH PROVIDES THAT AN EMPLOYEE SHALL ASSIGN, OR OFFER TO ASSIGN, ANY OF HIS OR HER RIGHTS IN AN INVENTION  TO HIS  OR HER EMPLOYER SHALL NOT APPLY TO AN INVENTION THAT THE EMPLOYEE DEVELOPED ENTIRELY ON HIS OR HER OWN TIME WITHOUT USING THE EMPLOYER'S EQUIPMENT, SUPPLIES, FACILITIES, OR TRADE SECRET INFORMATION EXCEPT FOR THOSE INVENTIONS THAT EITHER: (1) RELATE AT THE TIME OF CONCEPTION OR REDUCTION   TO   PRACTICE OF THE INVENTION   TO   THE EMPLOYER'S BUSINESS, OR ACTUAL  OR DEMONSTRABLY         ANTICIPATED        RESEARCH        OR DEVELOPMENT OF    THE     EMPLOYER;     OR     (2) RESULT  FROM ANY WORK PERFORMED BY THE EMPLOYEE FOR THE EMPLOYER. TO THE EXTENT A PROVISION IN AN EMPLOYMENT AGREEMENT PURPORTS TO REQUIRE AN EMPLOYEE TO  ASSIGN 

AN INVENTION OTHERWISE EXCLUDED FROM BEING REQUIRED TO BE  ASSIGNED  UNDER   CALIFORNIA   LABOR   CODE  SECTION 2870(a), THE PROVISION IS AGAINST THE PUBLIC  POLICY OF THIS STATE AND IS UNENFORCEABLE. 
    
  5.  Assignment of Other Rights  .   In addition to the foregoing assignment of Assigned Inventions to the Company, I hereby irrevocably transfer and assign to the Company: (i) all worldwide patents, patent applications, copyrights, mask works, trade secrets and other intellectual property rights, including but not limited to rights in databases, in any Assigned Inventions, along with any registrations of or applications to register such rights; and (ii) any and all "Moral Rights" (as defined below) that I may have in  or with respect to any Assigned Inventions.  I also hereby forever waive and agree never to assert any and  all Moral Rights I may have in or with respect to any Assigned Inventions, even after termination of my work on behalf of the Company.   "Moral Rights"   mean any rights to claim authorship of or credit on an Assigned Inventions, to object to or prevent the modification or destruction of any Assigned Inventions or Prior Inventions licensed to Company under Section 3, or to withdraw from circulation or control the publication or distribution of any Assigned Inventions or Prior Inventions licensed to Company under Section 3, and any similar right, existing under judicial or statutory law of any country or subdivision thereof in the world, or  under any treaty, regardless of whether or not such right is denominated or generally referred to as a "moral right." 
    
  6.  Assistance  .   I agree to assist the Company in every proper way to obtain for the Company and enforce patents, copyrights, mask work rights, trade secret rights and other legal protections for the Company s Assigned Inventions in any and all countries. I will execute any documents that the Company may reasonably request for use in obtaining or enforcing such patents, copyrights, mask work rights, trade secrets and other legal protections. My obligations under this paragraph will continue beyond the termination of my employment with the Company, provided that the Company will compensate me at a reasonable rate after such termination for time or expenses actually spent by me at the Company's request on such assistance. I appoint the Secretary of the Company as my attorney-in-fact to execute documents on my behalf for this purpose. 
    
  7.  Proprietary Information  .   I understand that my employment by the Company creates a relationship of confidence and trust with respect to any information of a confidential or secret  nature, including but not limited to trade secrets, that may be disclosed to me by the Company or a third party that relates to the business of the Company or to the business of any parent, subsidiary, affiliate, customer or supplier of the Company or any other party with whom the Company agrees to hold information of such party in confidence (the   "Proprietary Information").   Such Proprietary Information includes, but is not limited to, Assigned Inventions, marketing plans, product plans, business strategies, financial information, forecasts, personnel information, customer lists and data, and domain names. 
    
  8.  Confidentiality  .   At all times, both during my employment and after its termination, I  will  keep and hold all such Proprietary Information in strict confidence and trust. I will not use or disclose any Proprietary Information without the prior written consent of the Company, except as may be necessary to perform my duties as an employee of the Company for the benefit of the Company. Upon termination of my employment with the Company, I will promptly deliver to the Company all documents and materials of any nature pertaining to my work with the Company. I will not take with me or retain any documents or materials or copies thereof containing any Proprietary Information. Notwithstanding this provision, I acknowledge that nothing in this Agreement prohibits or restricts me from initiating communications directly with, responding to any inquiry from, or providing information to or testimony before, the Securities and Exchange Commission ("SEC"), U.S. Department of Justice ("DOJ"), or other governmental agency or self-regulatory organization in accordance with applicable law, about actual or potential violations of laws or regulations. I further acknowledge that the Company has advised me that I will not be held criminally or civilly liable under any Federal or State trade secret law for: (a) the disclosure of a trade secret in confidence to a federal, state, or local government official, or to an attorney, solely for the purpose of reporting or investigating a suspected violation of law, (b) the disclosure of a trade secret in a complaint or other document filed in a lawsuit or other proceeding, provided that the trade secret is filed under seal, or (c) the disclosure of a trade secret to an attorney or the use of a trade secret in a court proceeding in connection with a lawsuit alleging retaliation for reporting a suspected violation of law, provided that the trade secret is filed under seal and not disclosed except pursuant to court order. 
    
  9.  No Breach of Prior Agreement  .   I represent that my performance of all the terms of this Agreement and my duties as an employee of the Company will not breach any invention assignment, proprietary  

information, confidentiality or similar agreement with any former employer or other party. I represent that I will not bring with me to the Company or use in the performance of my duties for the Company any documents or materials or intangibles of a former employer or third party that are  not  generally available to the public or have not been legally transferred to the Company. 
    
  10.  Efforts; Duty Not to Compete  .   I understand that my employment with the Company requires my undivided attention and effort during normal business hours. While I am employed by the Company, I will not, without the Company's express prior written consent, provide services to, or assist in  any manner, any business or third party if such services or assistance would be in direct conflict with the Company's business interests. 
    
  11.  Notification  .   I hereby authorize the Company to notify third parties, including, without limitation, customers and actual or potential employers, of the terms of this Agreement and my responsibilities hereunder. 
    
  12.  Non-Solicitation of Employees/Consultants  .   During my employment with the Company and for a period of one (1) year thereafter, I will not directly or indirectly solicit away employees  or consultants of the Company for my own benefit or for the benefit of any other person or entity. 
    
  13.  Non-Solicitation of Suppliers/Customers  .   During my employment with the Company and after termination of my employment, I will not directly or indirectly use any Company trade secrets to solicit or take away suppliers or customers of the Company, including, for example, the identity of the supplier or customer or information about the supplier or customer relationship. 
    
  14.  Injunctive Relief  .   I understand that in the event of a breach or threatened breach of this Agreement by me the Company may suffer irreparable harm and will therefore be entitled to injunctive relief to enforce this Agreement. 
    
  15.  Governing Law; Severability  .   This Agreement will be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California, without giving effect to its laws pertaining to conflict of laws. If any provision of this Agreement is determined by any court or arbitrator of competent jurisdiction to be invalid, illegal or unenforceable in any respect, such provision will be enforced to the maximum extent possible given the intent of the parties hereto. If such clause or provision cannot be so enforced, such provision shall be stricken from this Agreement and the remainder of this Agreement shall be enforced as if such invalid, illegal or unenforceable clause or provision had (to the extent not enforceable) never been contained in this Agreement. 
    
  16.  Survival  .   I acknowledge that each of my obligations arising under this Agreement shall survive the termination of my employment with the Company and remain in full force and effect. 
    
  17.  Counterparts  .   This Agreement may be executed in any number of counterparts, each of which when so executed and delivered will be deemed an original, and all of which together shall constitute one and the same agreement. 
    
  18.  Entire Agreement  .   This Agreement and the documents referred to herein constitute the entire agreement and understanding of the parties with respect to the subject matter of this Agreement, and supersede all prior understandings and agreements, whether oral or written, between or among the parties hereto with respect to the specific subject matter hereof. 
    
  19.  Amendment and Waivers  .   This Agreement may be amended only by a written agreement executed by each of the parties hereto. No amendment of or waiver of, or modification of any obligation under this Agreement will be enforceable unless set forth in a writing signed by the party against which enforcement is sought. Any amendment effected in accordance with this section will be binding upon all parties hereto and each of their respective successors and assigns. No delay or failure to require performance of any provision of this Agreement shall constitute a waiver of that provision as to that or any other instance. No waiver granted under this Agreement as to any one provision herein shall constitute a subsequent waiver of such provision or of any other provision herein, nor shall it constitute the waiver of any performance other than the actual performance specifically waived. 
    
  20.  Successors and Assigns; Assignment  .   Except as  otherwise  provided  in  this  Agreement, this Agreement, and the rights and obligations of the parties hereunder, will be binding upon and inure to the benefit of  

their respective successors, assigns, heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives. The Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement. No other party to this Agreement may assign, whether voluntarily or by operation of law, any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, except with the prior written consent of the Company. 
    
  21.  Further Assurances  .   The parties agree to execute such further documents  and  instruments and to take such further actions as may be reasonably necessary to carry out the purposes and intent of this Agreement. 
    
  22.   At Will  Employment  .   I understand that this Agreement does not constitute a contract of employment or obligate the Company to employ me for any stated period of time. I understand that I am an "at will" employee of the Company and that my employment can be terminated at any time, with or without notice and with or without cause, for any reason or for no reason, by either the Company or myself. I acknowledge that any statements or representations to the contrary are ineffective, unless put into a writing signed by the Company.  I further acknowledge that my participation in any stock option or benefit program   is not to be construed as any assurance of continuing employment for any particular period of time. 

This Agreement shall be effective as of the first day of my employment by the Company, which is November 14, 2016. 

EMPLOYEE: 
    
  Signature:         /s/ Richard Campione       
  Print Name:     Richard Campione 
  Splunk Inc.: 
    
  By:           /s/ Tracy Edkins       
  Name:     Tracy Edkins       
  Title:         Chief Human Resources Officer       

Signature Page to Splunk Inc. Employee Invention Assignment and 
  Confidentiality Agreement 

</EX-10.20>

<EX-21.1>
 3
 ex-211013118.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.1 

LIST OF SUBSIDIARIES OF THE REGISTRANT 
    
              The following is a list of subsidiaries of Splunk Inc. as of January 31, 2018: 
    
                 Entity Name 
    Jurisdiction 
      Splunk Cayman Holding Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Splunk Information Technology (Shanghai) Co., Ltd. 
    Shanghai, PRC 
      Splunk Ireland Limited 
    Ireland 
      Splunk Services Australia Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      Splunk Services Belgium BVBA 
    Belgium 
      Splunk Servi os do Brasil Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Splunk Services Canada Inc. 
    British Columbia, Canada 
      Splunk Services Cayman Ltd. 
    Cayman Islands 
      Splunk Services France SAS 
    France 
      Splunk Services FZ-LLC 
    Dubai, UAE 
      Splunk Services Germany GmbH 
    Germany 
      Splunk Services Hong Kong Ltd 
    Hong Kong 
      Splunk Services India Private Limited 
    India 
      Splunk Services Japan GK 
    Japan 
      Splunk Services Korea 
    Republic of Korea 
      Splunk Services LLC 
    Delaware, U.S. 
      Splunk Services Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 
    Malaysia 
      Splunk Services Netherlands B.V. 
    The Netherlands 
      Splunk Services New Zealand Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Splunk Services Singapore Pte Ltd 
    Singapore 
      Splunk Services Sweden AB 
    Sweden 
      Splunk Services UK Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Splunk Technology Consulting (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
    Beijing, PRC 
      Caspida, Inc. 
    Delaware, U.S. 
      Drastin Inc.  
    Delaware, U.S. 
      SignalSense, Inc. 
    Washington, U.S. 

</EX-21.1>

<EX-23.1>
 4
 ex-231013118.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.1    
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We hereby consent to the incorporation by reference in the Registration Statements on Form S-8 (No. 333-203145, No. 333-194924, No. 333-187658, No. 333-180896, No. 333-210490, and No. 333-217015) and Form S-3 (No. 333-193456) of Splunk Inc. of our report dated March 30, 2018 relating to the financial statements and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, which appears in this Form 10 K. 
    
  /s/ PricewaterhouseCoopers LLP 
  San Jose, California 
  March 30, 2018 

</EX-23.1>

<EX-31.1>
 5
 ex-311013118.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.1    
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER     PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a),     AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO     SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002    
  I, Douglas S. Merritt, certify that: 
    
  1.        I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Splunk Inc.; 
    
  2.        Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
    
           3.        
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
       
  4.        The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
    
  a.        Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
    
  b.        Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
    
  c.        Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
    
  d.        Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
    
  5.         The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
    
  a.        All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
    
  b.        Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
                 Date: March 30, 2018 

/s/ Douglas S. Merritt 
        
    Douglas S. Merritt 
        
    President and Chief Executive Officer 
        
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.1>

<EX-31.2>
 6
 ex-312013118.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.2

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.2 
    
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO EXCHANGE ACT RULES 13a-14(a) AND 15d-14(a), 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 302 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  I, David F. Conte, certify that: 
    
  1.        I have reviewed this Annual Report on Form 10-K of Splunk Inc.; 
    
  2.        Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
    
  3.        Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
    
  4.        The registrant's other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
    
  a.        Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
    
  b.        Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
    
  c.        Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
    
  d.        Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
    
  5.        The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
    
  a.        All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
    
  b.        Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
    
                 Date: March 30, 2018 

/s/ David F. Conte 
        
    David F. Conte 
        
    Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
        
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

</EX-31.2>

<EX-32.1>
 7
 ex-321013118.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.1

Exhibit 

Exhibit 32.1 
    
  CERTIFICATION OF CHIEF EXECUTIVE OFFICER AND CHIEF FINANCIAL OFFICER 
  PURSUANT TO 
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350, 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO 
  SECTION 906 OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002 
    
  I, Douglas S. Merritt, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Splunk Inc. on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Splunk Inc. 
    
  Date: March 30, 2018 

/s/ Douglas S. Merritt 

Douglas S. Merritt 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

I, David F. Conte, certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that the Annual Report of Splunk Inc. on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended January 31, 2018 fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and that information contained in such Annual Report on Form 10-K fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of Splunk Inc. 
    
  Date: March 30, 2018 

/s/ David F. Conte 

David F. Conte 

Senior Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 

</EX-32.1>

<EX-101.INS>
 8
 splk-20180131.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 9
 splk-20180131.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 10
 splk-20180131_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 11
 splk-20180131_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 12
 splk-20180131_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 13
 splk-20180131_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

