<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180216_10-K_edgar_data_1014473_0001014473-18-000018_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>8225771</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>360499</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>539745</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>2771934</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>3146627</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>1219622</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>67</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>13</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0001014473-18-000018.hdr.sgml : 20180216
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180216163856
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0001014473-18-000018
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		87
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20171231
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180216
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180216

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			VERISIGN INC/CA
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0001014473
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-COMPUTER PROGRAMMING SERVICES [7371]
		IRS NUMBER:				943221585
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			1231

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-23593
		FILM NUMBER:		18621728

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		12061 BLUEMONT WAY
		STREET 2:		ATTN: GENERAL COUNSEL
		CITY:			RESTON
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			20190
		BUSINESS PHONE:		7039483200

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		12061 BLUEMONT WAY
		STREET 2:		ATTN: GENERAL COUNSEL
		CITY:			RESTON
		STATE:			VA
		ZIP:			20190

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0001014473-18-000018.txt : 20180216

10-K
 1
 vrsn-20171231x10k.htm
 10-K

Document 

UNITED STATES 
  SECURITIES AND EXCHANGE COMMISSION 
  Washington, D.C. 20549 
           
  FORM 10-K 
  (Mark One) 

For the fiscal year ended December 31,   2017    
  OR 

For the transition period from                      to                    
  Commission File Number: 000-23593  
           
  VERISIGN, INC. 
  (Exact name of registrant as specified in its charter) 

Registrant s telephone number, including area code: (703) 948-3200 
  Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(b) of the Act:  
                 Title of each class 
    Name of each exchange on which registered 
      Common Stock $0.001 Par Value Per Share 
    NASDAQ Global Select Market 

Securities registered pursuant to Section 12(g) of the Act: None 
             
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is a well-known seasoned issuer, as defined in Rule 405 of the Securities Act.     YES            NO     o 
  Indicate by check mark if the registrant is not required to file reports pursuant to Section 13 or Section 15(d) of the Act.  YES     o      NO       
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant (1) has filed all reports required to be filed by Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to file such reports), and (2) has been subject to such filing requirements for the past 90 days. YES         NO     o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant has submitted electronically and posted on its corporate Web site, if any, every Interactive Data File required to be submitted and posted pursuant to Rule 405 of Regulation S-T ( 232.405 of this chapter) during the preceding 12 months (or for such shorter period that the registrant was required to submit and post such files).     YES             NO     o 
  Indicate by check mark if disclosure of delinquent filers pursuant to Item 405 of Regulation S-K is not contained herein, and will not be contained, to the best of the registrant s knowledge, in definitive proxy or information statements incorporated by reference in Part III of this Form 10-K or any amendment to this Form 10-K.     o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a large accelerated filer, an accelerated filer, a non-accelerated filer, or a smaller reporting company. See the definitions of  large accelerated filer,   accelerated filer  and  smaller reporting company  in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.  
                             Large accelerated filer 

Accelerated filer 
        o 
      Non-accelerated filer 
        o 

Smaller reporting company 
        o 

Emerging growth company 
        o 

If an emerging growth company, indicate by check mark if the registrant has elected not to use the extended transition period for complying with any new or revised financial accounting standards provided pursuant to Section 13(a) of the Exchange Act.    o 
  Indicate by check mark whether the registrant is a shell company (as defined in Rule 12b-2 of the Exchange Act.):     YES     o       NO       
  The aggregate market value of the voting and non-voting common equity stock held by non-affiliates of the Registrant as of June 30,   2017  , was $3.3 billion based upon the last sale price reported for such date on the NASDAQ Global Select Market. For purposes of this disclosure, shares of Common Stock held by persons known to the Registrant (based on information provided by such persons and/or the most recent schedule 13Gs filed by such persons) to beneficially own more than 5% of the Registrant s Common Stock and shares held by officers and directors of the Registrant have been excluded because such persons may be deemed to be affiliates. This determination is not necessarily a conclusive determination for other purposes.   
  Number of shares of Common Stock, $0.001 par value, outstanding as of the close of business on February 9, 2018: 97,120,531 shares.  
  DOCUMENTS INCORPORATED BY REFERENCE  
  Portions of the definitive Proxy Statement to be delivered to stockholders in connection with the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders are incorporated by reference into Part III                         

TABLE OF CONTENTS 

Page 
        
     PART I  
      
       Item 1.  
     Business  
    3 
       Item 1A.  
     Risk Factors  
    10 
       Item 1B.  
     Unresolved Staff Comments  
    22 
       Item 2.  
     Properties  
    23 
       Item 3.  
     Legal Proceedings  
    23 
       Item 4.  
     Mine Safety Disclosures  
    23 
        
     Executive Officers of the Registrant  
    24 
        
     PART II  
      
       Item 5.  
     Market for Registrant's Common Equity, Related Stockholder Matters and Issuer Purchases of Equity Securities  
    25 
       Item 6.  
     Selected Financial Data  
    27 
       Item 7.  
     Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  
    28 
       Item 7A.  
     Quantitative and Qualitative Disclosures About Market Risk  
    38 
       Item 8.  
     Financial Statements and Supplementary Data  
    39 
       Item 9.  
     Changes in and Disagreements With Accountants on Accounting and Financial Disclosure  
    40 
       Item 9A.  
     Controls and Procedures  
    40 
       Item 9B.  
     Other Information  
    40 
        
     PART III  
      
       Item 10.  
     Directors, Executive Officers and Corporate Governance  
    41 
       Item 11.  
     Executive Compensation  
    41 
       Item 12.  
     Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management and Related Stockholder    Matters 
    41 
       Item 13.  
     Certain Relationships and Related Transactions, and Director Independence  
    41 
       Item 14.  
     Principal Accountant Fees and Services  
    41 
        
     PART IV  
      
       Item 15.  
     Exhibits, Financial Statement Schedules  
    42 
       Item 16.  
     10-K Summary  
    44 
       Financial Statements and Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
    45 
       Signatures  
    71 

2 

For purposes of this Annual Report, the terms  Verisign ,  the Company ,  we ,  us , and  our  refer to VeriSign, Inc. and its consolidated subsidiaries. 
  PART I 

ITEM 1. 
    BUSINESS  
     Overview  
    
  We are a global provider of domain name registry services and internet security, enabling internet navigation for many of the world s most recognized domain names and providing protection for websites and enterprises around the world ( Registry Services ).  Our Registry Services ensure the security, stability, and resiliency of key internet infrastructure and services, including the .  com   and .  net   domains, two of the internet s root servers, and operation of the root zone maintainer function for the core of the internet s Domain Name System ( DNS ).  Our product suite also includes Security Services, consisting of Distributed Denial of Service ( DDoS ) Protection Services and Managed DNS Services.  On April 1, 2017, we completed the sale of our iDefense Security Intelligence Services ( iDefense ) business. 
    
  We have one reportable segment, which consists of Registry Services and Security Services. We have operations inside as well as outside the United States ( U.S. ). For certain additional information about our segment, including a geographic breakdown of revenues and changes in revenues, see  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations  in Item 7 and Note 7,  Geographic and Customer Information  of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K.  
     
  We were incorporated in Delaware on April 12, 1995.  Our principal executive offices are located at 12061 Bluemont Way, Reston, Virginia 20190. Our telephone number at that address is (703) 948-3200. Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the ticker symbol VRSN. VERISIGN, the VERISIGN logo, and certain other product or service names are registered or unregistered trademarks in the U.S. and other countries. Other names used in this Form 10-K may be trademarks of their respective owners. Our primary website is   https://www.Verisign.com  . The information available on, or accessible through, this website is not incorporated in this Form 10-K by reference. 
    
  Our Annual Report on Form 10-K, Quarterly Reports on Form 10-Q, Current Reports on Form 8-K, and amendments to those reports filed or furnished pursuant to Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended (the  Exchange Act ), are available, free of charge, on the Investor Relations section of our website as soon as is reasonably practicable after filing such reports with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ). The public may read and copy any materials we file with the SEC at the SEC s Public Reference Room at 100 F Street, NE, Washington, DC 20549. The public may obtain information on the operation of the Public Reference Room by calling the SEC at 1-800-SEC-0330. The SEC maintains an internet site that contains reports, proxy and information statements, and other information regarding issuers that file electronically with the SEC at   https://www.sec.gov  . 
    
  Pursuant to our agreements with the Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ), we make available on our website (at   https://www.Verisign.com/zone  ) files containing all active domain names registered in the .  com   and .  net   registries. At the same website address, we make available a summary of the active zone count registered in the .  com   and .  net   registries and the number of   .com   and   .net   domain names in the domain name base. The domain name base is the active zone plus the number of domain names that are registered but not configured for use in the respective top level domain zone file plus the number of domain names that are in a client or server hold status. These files and the related summary data are updated at least once per day. The update times may vary each day. The number of domain names provided in this Form 10-K are as of midnight of the date reported.  
    
  We announce material financial information to our investors using our investor relations website   https://investor.Verisign.com  , SEC filings, investor events, news and earnings releases, public conference calls and webcasts.  We use these channels as well as social media to communicate with our investors and the public about our company, our products and services, and other issues. It is possible that the information we post on social media could be deemed to be material information. Therefore, we encourage investors, the media, and others interested in our Company to review the information we post on the social media channels listed below. This list may be updated from time to time on our investor relations website. 
  https://www.Facebook.com/Verisign 
  https://www.Twitter.com/Verisign 
  https://www.LinkedIn.com/company/Verisign 
  https://www.YouTube.com/user/Verisign 
  https://www.Verisign.com 
  https://blog.Verisign.com 

3 

The contents of these websites are not intended to be incorporated by reference into this Annual Report on Form 10-K or in any other report or document we file. 
    
  Registry Services  
    
  Registry Services operates the authoritative directory of and/or the back-end systems for all   .com, .net, .cc, .tv, .gov, .jobs,  
  .edu   and   .name   domain names, among others. Registry Services allows individuals and organizations to establish their online identities, while providing the secure, always-on access they need to communicate and transact reliably with large-scale online audiences.  
    
  We are the exclusive registry of domain names within the   .com, .net,   and   .name   generic top-level domains ( gTLDs ), among others, under agreements with ICANN and also, with respect to the   .com   agreement, the U.S. Department of Commerce ( DOC ). We are also the exclusive registry of domain names within certain transliterations of   .com   and   .net   in a number of different native languages and scripts ( IDN gTLDs ). As a registry, we maintain the master directory of all second-level domain names in these gTLDs and IDN gTLDs (e.g., johndoe.com and janedoe.net). Our global constellation of domain name servers provides internet protocol ( IP ) address information in response to queries, enabling the use of browsers, email systems, and other systems on the internet.  In addition, we own and maintain the shared registration system that allows all registrars to enter new second-level domain names into the master directory and to submit modifications, transfers, re-registrations and deletions for existing second-level domain names ( Shared Registration System ).  
    
  Separate from our agreements with ICANN, we have agreements to be the exclusive registry for the   .tv   and   .cc   country code top-level domains ( ccTLDs ) for Tuvalu and Cocos (Keeling) Islands, respectively, and to operate the back-end registry systems for the   .gov  ,   .jobs,   and   .edu   sponsored TLDs. These TLDs are also supported by our global constellation of domain name servers and Shared Registration System.  
    
  We also provide internationalized domain name ( IDN ) services that enable internet users to access websites in characters representing their local language. Our gTLDs and ccTLDs can support standards compliant registrations in over 100 different native languages and scripts.   
    
  Domain names can be registered for between one and 10 years. The fees charged for   .com  ,   .net   and   .name   may only be increased according to adjustments prescribed in our agreements with ICANN over the applicable term. With respect to .  com,   price increases require prior approval by the DOC according to the terms of Amendment 32 of the Cooperative Agreement, as amended, between the DOC and Verisign ( Cooperative Agreement ).  Revenues for   .cc   and   .tv   domain names and our IDN gTLDs are based on a similar fee system and registration system, although the fees charged are not subject to the same pricing restrictions as those imposed by ICANN on   .com  ,   .net   and   .name  . The fees received from operating the .  gov   registry are based on the terms of Verisign s agreement with the U.S. General Services Administration. The fees received from operating the   .jobs   registry infrastructure, and that of others for which Verisign provides such services, are based on the terms of Verisign s agreements with those respective registry operators  .  
    
  Historically, we have experienced higher domain name growth in the first quarter of the year compared to other quarters. Our quarterly revenue does not reflect these seasonal patterns because the preponderance of our revenue for each quarterly period is provided by the ratable recognition of our deferred revenue balance.  The effect of this seasonality has historically resulted in the largest amount of growth in our deferred revenue balance occurring during the first quarter of the year compared to the other quarters.  
    
  Security Services  
    
  Security Services provides infrastructure assurance to organizations and is comprised of DDoS Protection Services and Managed DNS Services.  
  DDoS Protection Services supports online business continuity by providing monitoring and mitigation services against DDoS attacks. We help companies stay online without needing to make significant investments in infrastructure or establish internal DDoS expertise. As a cloud-based service, DDoS Protection Services can be deployed quickly and easily, with no customer premise equipment required. This saves time and money through operational efficiencies, support costs, and economies of scale to provide detection and protection against the largest DDoS attacks. Customers include financial institutions, software-as-a-service providers, e-commerce providers, and media companies. Customers pay a subscription fee that varies depending on the customer s network requirements.  

4 

Managed DNS Services is a hosting service that delivers DNS resolution, improving the availability of web-based systems. It provides DNS availability through a globally distributed, securely managed, cloud-based DNS infrastructure, allowing enterprises to save on capital expenses associated with DNS infrastructure deployment and reduce operational costs and complexity associated with DNS management.  Managed DNS service provides full support for DNS Security Extensions ( DNSSEC ) compliance features and Geo Location traffic routing capabilities.  DNSSEC is designed to protect the DNS infrastructure from man-in-the-middle attacks that corrupt, or poison, DNS data. Geo Location allows website owners to customize responses for end-users based on their physical location or IP address, giving them the ability to deliver location-specific content. Customers include financial institutions, e-commerce, and software-as-a-service providers.  Customers pay a subscription fee that varies based on the amount of DNS traffic they receive. 
    
  Operations Infrastructure  
    
  Our operations infrastructure consists of three secure data centers in Dulles, Virginia; New Castle, Delaware; and Fribourg, Switzerland as well as more than 100 resolution sites around the world. These secure data centers operate 24 hours a day, supporting our business units and services. The performance and scale of our infrastructure are critical for our business, and give us the platform to maintain our leadership position. Key features of our operations infrastructure include:  

Distributed Servers:    We operate a large number of high-speed servers globally to support localized capacity and availability demands.  In conjunction with our proprietary software, processes and procedures, this platform offers rapid failover, global and local load balancing, and threshold monitoring on critical servers.  

Networking:    We deploy and maintain a redundant and diverse global network, maintain high-speed, redundant connections to numerous internet service providers, and maintain peering relationships globally to ensure that our critical services are readily accessible to customers at all times.  

Security:    We incorporate architectural concepts such as protected domains, restricted nodes and distributed access control in our system architecture. In addition, we employ firewalls and intrusion detection software, as well as proprietary security mechanisms at many points across our infrastructure.  We perform recurring internal vulnerability testing and controls audits, and also contract with third-party security consultants who perform periodic penetration tests and security risk assessments on our systems. Verisign has engineered resiliency and diversity into how it hosts classes of products throughout its set of interconnected sites to mitigate unknown vendor defects and zero-hour security vulnerabilities.  This includes different physical security silos, which themselves are separated into bulkheads, and in which servers are located. Corporate networks are in their own physical silo. Thus, the corporate networks to which personnel directly connect are separated from the silos that house production services; administration of production gear from corporate systems must go through an internal, fortified intermediary; and account credentials used within the corporate networks are not used within the production silos, nor on the fortified systems. 

Data Integrity:    Verisign employs both phased and systemic integrity validation operations via a number of proprietary mechanisms on all internal DNS publication operations. 
       
  As part of our operations infrastructure for our Registry Services business, we operate all authoritative domain name servers that answer domain name queries for the   .com   and   .net   zones, as well as for the other TLDs for which we are the registry operator. We also perform the root zone maintainer function for the core of the internet s Domain Name System ( DNS ) and administer and operate two of the 13 root zone servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the DNS hierarchy. Our domain name servers provide the associated authoritative name servers and IP addresses for every   .com   and   .net   domain name on the internet and a large number of other TLD queries, resulting in an average of approximately 132 billion transactions per day.  These name servers are located in resolution facilities which are in a controlled and monitored environment, incorporating security and system maintenance features. This network of name servers is one of the cornerstones of the internet s DNS infrastructure. 
    
  We have continuously expanded our infrastructure to meet demands to support normal and peak system load and attack volumes based on what we have experienced historically, as well as to address projected internet attack trends. 
    
  Call Centers and Help Desk:    We provide customer support services through our phone-based call centers, email help desks and web-based self-help systems. Our Virginia call center is staffed 24 hours a day, every day of the year to support our businesses. All call centers have a staff of trained customer support agents and also provide web-based support services utilizing customized automatic response systems to provide self-help recommendations.  
  
   5 

Operations Support and Monitoring:    Through our network operations centers, we have an extensive monitoring capability that enables us to track the status and performance of our critical database systems and our global resolution systems. Our network operations center is staffed 24 hours a day, every day of the year.  
    
  Disaster Recovery Plans:    We have disaster recovery and business continuity capabilities that are designed to deal with the loss of entire data centers and other facilities. Our Registry Services business maintains dual mirrored data centers that allow rapid failover with no data loss and no loss of function or capacity, as well as off-continent tertiary Registry Services capabilities. Our critical data services (including domain name registration and global resolution) use advanced storage systems that provide data protection through techniques such as synchronous mirroring and remote replication.  
    
  Marketing, Sales and Distribution  
    
  We seek to expand our business through focused marketing campaigns and programs that target growth in the   .com   and   .net    domain name base, both domestically and in foreign markets. We offer promotional marketing programs for our registrars based upon market conditions and the business environment in which the registrars operate.  We provide tools to be used by both registrars and end users to allow them to find relevant domain names.  We market our Security Services worldwide through multiple distribution channels, including direct sales and indirect channels. We have marketing and sales offices in several countries around the world. 
    
  Research and Development  
    
  We believe that timely development of new and enhanced services, including monitoring and visualization, registry provisioning platforms, navigation and resolution services, data services, value added services, and Security Services, as well as new and enhanced ways to ensure the security, stability, and resiliency of our services, is necessary to remain competitive in the marketplace. During   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015   our research and development expenses were   $52.3 million  ,   $59.1 million   and   $63.7 million  , respectively.  
    
  Our future success will depend, in large part, on our ability to continue to maintain and enhance our current technologies and services and to develop new ones. We actively investigate and incubate new concepts and evaluate new business ideas through our innovation pipeline. We expect that most of the future enhancements to our existing services and our new services will be the result of internal development efforts in collaboration with suppliers, other vendors, customers, and the technology community.  Under certain circumstances, we may also acquire or license technology from third parties.  
    
  The markets for our services are dynamic, characterized by rapid technological developments, frequent new product introductions, and evolving industry standards. The constantly changing nature of these markets and their rapid evolution will require us to continually improve the performance, features, and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings, and to introduce both new and enhanced services as quickly as possible and prior to our competitors. 
    
  Competition  
    
  We compete with numerous companies in both the Registry Services and Security Services businesses. The overall number of our competitors may increase and the identity and composition of competitors may change over time.  
  New technologies and the expansion of existing technologies may increase competitive pressure. In addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. The existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers.  
  Competition in Registry Services  :      We face competition in the domain name registry space from other gTLD and ccTLD registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration, establish a web presence, as well as other uses of domain names, such as branded email. In addition to the gTLDs and ccTLDs we operate or for which we provide back-end registry services, there are over 1,000 other operational gTLD registries, over 250 Latin script ccTLD registries, more than 50 IDN ccTLD registries, and over 80 IDN gTLD registries. Under our agreements with ICANN, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of   .com  ,   .net   and   .name   on pricing, bundling, marketing, methods of distribution, the introduction of new registry services, and use of registrars, that do not apply to ccTLDs and other gTLDs and therefore may create a competitive disadvantage.  
    
  To the extent end-users navigate using search engines or social media, as opposed to direct navigation, we may face competition from search engine operators such as Google, Microsoft, and Verizon, operators of social media networks such as Facebook, operators of ecommerce platforms such as Amazon, eBay and Taobao, and operators of microblogging tools such as Twitter. In addition, we may face competition from these social media businesses and ecommerce platforms if they are used to  
  
   6 

establish an online presence by end-users rather than through the use of a domain name. Furthermore, to the extent end-users increase the use of web and mobile applications to locate and access content, we may face competition from providers of such web and mobile applications. 
  We also face competition from service providers that offer outsourced domain name registration, resolution and other DNS services to organizations that require a reliable and scalable infrastructure. Among our competitors are Neustar, Inc., Afilias plc, and CentralNic Ltd.  
  Competition in Security Services  :  Several of our current and potential competitors have longer operating histories and/or significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, sales, and other resources than we do and therefore may be able to respond more quickly than we can to new or changing opportunities, technologies, standards, and customer requirements. Many of these competitors also have broader and more established distribution channels that may be used to deliver competing products or services directly to customers through bundling or other means. If such competitors were to bundle competing products or services for their customers, we may experience difficulty establishing or increasing demand for our products and services or distributing our products successfully.  In addition, it may be difficult to compete against consolidation and partnerships among our competitors which create integrated product suites. 
  Our Security Services business faces competition from companies such as Akamai Technologies, Inc., Cisco, Neustar, Inc., and Oracle, among others. 
    
  Industry Regulation  
    
  The internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as ICANN, governments including the U.S. government, academia, non-governmental organizations, and international organizations.  ICANN plays a central coordination role in the multi-stakeholder system. ICANN is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. The multi-stakeholder process has and will continue to create policies, programs, and standards that directly or indirectly impact or affect our business. In addition, country-level regulations, such as those implemented by China, impose additional costs on our Registry Services, can affect the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations, and may also affect our ability to do business. Similarly, in the European Union, legislative and regulatory bodies responsible for data privacy continue to enhance and modify data privacy protections, which impacts our collection and delivery of personal data as we provide our domain name registry services, and could affect costs of operation. 
    
  As the exclusive registry of domain names within the   .com   and   .net   gTLDs, we have entered into certain agreements with ICANN and, in the case of .  com  , the DOC under a Cooperative Agreement. 
    
  .com Registry Agreement    
    
  Following the extension of the   .com   Registry Agreement on October 20, 2016, the   .com   Registry Agreement provides that we will continue to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the   .com   gTLD through November 30, 2024. As part of the extension of the   .com   Registry Agreement, the Company and ICANN agreed to cooperate and negotiate in good faith to amend the terms of the   .com   Registry Agreement: (i) by October 20, 2018, to preserve and enhance the security and stability of the internet or the   .com   TLD, and (ii) as may be necessary for consistency with changes to, or the termination or expiration of, the Cooperative Agreement. The   .com   Registry Agreement includes pricing restrictions for   .com   domain name registrations, which sets a maximum price of $7.85 for a   .com   domain name registration and is consistent with the terms of the Cooperative Agreement as set forth below.  In addition, on a quarterly basis, we pay $0.25 to ICANN for each annual increment of a domain name registered or renewed during such quarter. We are required to comply with and implement temporary specifications or policies and consensus policies, as well as other provisions pursuant to the   .com   Registry Agreement relating to handling of data and other registry operations. The   .com   Registry Agreement also provides a procedure for Verisign to propose, and ICANN to review and approve, additional registry services. 
    
  The   .com   and   .net   Registry Agreements with ICANN contain a  presumptive  right of renewal upon the expiration of their current terms. In addition to ICANN s approval, a renewal of the .  com   Registry Agreement must be approved by the DOC, which, under certain circumstances, could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the   .com   Registry Agreement on similar terms, or at all. ICANN could terminate or refuse to renew our .  com   and/or   .net   Registry Agreements if, upon proper notice, (i) we fail to cure a fundamental and material breach of certain specified obligations, and (ii) we fail to timely comply with a final decision of an arbitrator or court. See  Risk Factors - Risks arising from our agreements governing our Registry Services business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business  in Part I, Item 1A of this Annual Report on Form 10-K for further information. Our   .com   and   .net   Registry Agreements contain obligations to provide access to our systems, restrictions on our ability to market and bundle our products and services, and restrictions on our ability to control our registrar channel or own a registrar. 
  
   7 

See the risk factor  Risks arising from our agreements governing our Registry Services business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business  in Part 1A for further information. 
    
  Cooperative Agreement 
    
  The Cooperative Agreement will expire on November 30, 2018, unless the DOC, in its sole discretion, extends the term. The DOC has the right to conduct a public interest review for the sole purpose of determining whether the DOC will exercise its right to extend the term of the Cooperative Agreement. In connection with the aforementioned review, we agreed to cooperate fully and to work in good faith to reach a mutual agreement with the DOC to resolve issues identified in such review and to work in good faith to implement any agreed upon changes as of the expiration of the current term of the Cooperative Agreement. 
    
  The Cooperative Agreement provides that the Maximum Price (as defined in the   .com   Registry Agreement) of a   .com   domain name shall not exceed $7.85 for the term of the   .com   Registry Agreement, except that we are entitled to increase the Maximum Price of a   .com   domain name due to the imposition of any new Consensus Policy or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the Security or Stability of the DNS as described in the   .com   Registry Agreement, provided that we may not exercise such right unless the DOC provides prior written approval that the exercise of such right will serve the public interest, such approval not to be unreasonably withheld. The Cooperative Agreement further provides that we shall be entitled at any time during the term of the   .com   Registry Agreement to seek to remove the pricing restrictions contained in the   .com   Registry Agreement if we demonstrate to the DOC that market conditions no longer warrant pricing restrictions in the   .com   Registry Agreement, as determined by the DOC. 
    
  The Cooperative Agreement also provides that the DOC s approval of the   .com   Registry Agreement is not intended to confer federal antitrust immunity on us with respect to the   .com   Registry Agreement. The Cooperative Agreement also provides that any renewal or extension of the   .com   Registry Agreement is subject to prior written approval by the DOC. The DOC shall approve such renewal if it concludes that approval will serve the public interest in (a) the continued security and stability of the internet DNS and the operation of the   .com   registry including, in addition to other relevant factors, consideration of Verisign s compliance with consensus policies and technical specifications, its service level agreements as set forth in the   .com   Registry Agreement, and the investment associated with improving the security and stability of the DNS, and (b) the provision of Registry Services as defined in the   .com   Registry Agreement at reasonable prices, terms and conditions. The parties have an expectancy of renewal of the   .com   Registry Agreement so long as the foregoing public interest standard is met and Verisign is not in breach of the   .com   Registry Agreement. 
    
  .net Registry Agreement 
    
  We entered into a renewal of our .  net   Registry Agreement with ICANN that was effective on July 1, 2017. The   .net   Registry Agreement provides that we will continue to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the   .net   TLD through June 30, 2023.  
    
  Root Zone Maintainer Service Agreement 
    
  In the fourth quarter of 2016, we entered into a new agreement with ICANN, the Root Zone Maintainer Service Agreement ( RZMA ) under which we perform the Root Zone Maintainer functions on behalf of ICANN. The RZMA will expire on October 19, 2024, with an automatic renewal unless earlier terminated. 
    
  The descriptions of the   .com   Registry Agreement, the Cooperative Agreement, and the   .net   Registry Agreement are qualified in their entirety by the text of the complete agreements that are incorporated by reference as exhibits in this Form 10-K.  
    
  Intellectual Property  
    
  We rely on a combination of copyrighted software, trademarks, service marks, patents, trade secrets, know-how, restrictions on disclosure, and other methods to protect our proprietary assets. We also enter into confidentiality and/or invention assignment agreements with our employees, consultants and current and potential affiliates, customers and business partners. We also control access to and distribution of proprietary documentation and other confidential information. 
    
  We have been issued numerous patents in the U.S. and abroad, covering a wide range of our technologies. Additionally, we continue to file numerous patent applications with respect to certain of our technologies in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and internationally.  Patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, such patents may not provide sufficient protection of our intellectual property. We continue to focus on growing our patent portfolio and consider opportunities for its strategic use. 
  
   8 

We have obtained trademark registrations for the VERISIGN mark and VERISIGN logo in the U.S. and certain countries, and have pending trademark applications for the VERISIGN logo in a number of other countries. We have common law rights in other proprietary names. We take steps to enforce and police Verisign s trademarks. We rely on the strength of our Verisign brand to help differentiate ourselves in the marketing of our products and services.  
    
  Our principal intellectual property consists of, and our success is dependent upon, proprietary software used in our Registry Services business and certain methodologies (many of which are patented or for which patent applications are pending) and technical expertise and proprietary know-how we use in both the design and implementation of our current and future registry services.  We own our proprietary Shared Registration System through which registrars submit second-level domain name registrations for each of the registries we operate, as well as the ATLAS distributed lookup system which processes billions of queries per day. Our Security Services business also depends on proprietary intellectual property.  Some of the software and protocols used in our business are in the public domain or are otherwise available to our competitors, and some are based on open standards set by organizations such as the Internet Engineering Task Force. To the extent any of our patents are considered  standard essential patents,  we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms or otherwise be limited in our ability to assert such patents. 

Employees  
    
  The following table shows a comparison of our consolidated employee headcount, by function:  

We have never had a work stoppage, and no U.S.-based employees are represented under collective bargaining agreements. Our ability to achieve our financial and operational objectives depends in large part upon our continued ability to attract, integrate, train, retain, and motivate highly qualified sales, technical and managerial personnel, and upon the continued service of our senior management and key sales and technical personnel. Competition for qualified personnel in our industry and in some of our geographical locations is intense, particularly for software development personnel.  
  
   9 

ITEM 1A.        RISK FACTORS  
  In addition to other information in this Form 10-K, the following risk factors should be carefully considered in evaluating us and our business because these factors currently have a significant impact or may have a significant impact on our business, operating results or financial condition. Actual results could differ materially from those projected in the forward-looking statements contained in this Form 10-K as a result of the risk factors discussed below and elsewhere in this Form 10-K and in other filings we make with the SEC. 
  Risks arising from our agreements governing our Registry Services business could limit our ability to maintain or grow our business. 
  We are parties to (i) a Cooperative Agreement (as amended) with the DOC with respect to the .  com   gTLD and (ii) Registry Agreements with ICANN for   .com  ,   .net, .name,   and other gTLDs including our IDN gTLDs. As substantially all of our revenues are derived from our Registry Services business, limitations and obligations in, or changes or challenges to, these agreements, particularly the agreements that involve .  com   and .  net  , could have a material adverse impact on our business. Certain competing registries, such as the ccTLDs, do not face the same limitations or obligations that we face in our agreements. 
  Modifications or Amendments.   In October 2016, the Company and ICANN entered into an amendment to extend the term of the   .com   Registry Agreement to November 30, 2024 (the    .com   Amendment ).  As part of the   .com   Amendment, the Company and ICANN agreed to negotiate in good faith to amend the terms of the   .com   Registry Agreement: (i) by October 20, 2018, to preserve and enhance the security and stability of the internet or the   .com   TLD, and (ii) as may be necessary for consistency with changes to, or the termination or expiration of, the Cooperative Agreement. We can provide no assurance that any new terms for the   .com   Registry Agreement that we agree to as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.  
  The DOC approved the .  com   Amendment under amendment 34 to the Cooperative Agreement. The DOC did not extend the term of the Cooperative Agreement, which will expire on November 30, 2018, unless the DOC, in its sole discretion, extends the term. Under amendment 34, the DOC has the right to conduct a public interest review for the sole purpose of determining whether the DOC will exercise its right to extend the term of the Cooperative Agreement. In connection with the aforementioned review, we agreed to cooperate fully and to work in good faith to reach a mutual agreement with the DOC to resolve issues identified in such review and to work in good faith to implement any agreed upon changes as of the expiration of the current term of the Cooperative Agreement. We can provide no assurance that any changes that we agree to as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows. 
  In addition, our Registry Agreements for new gTLDs, including the Registry Agreements for our IDN gTLDs, include ICANN s right to amend the agreements without our consent, which could impose unfavorable contract obligations on us that could impact our plans and competitive positions with respect to new gTLDs. At the time of renewal of our   .com   or   .net   Registry Agreements, ICANN might also attempt to impose this same unilateral right to amend these registry agreements under certain conditions. ICANN has also included new mandatory obligations on new gTLD registry operators, including us, that may increase the risks and potential liabilities associated with operating new gTLDs. ICANN might seek to impose these new mandatory obligations in our other Registry Agreements under certain conditions. We can provide no assurance that any changes to our Registry Agreements as a result of the above obligations will not have a material adverse impact on our business, operating results, financial condition, and cash flows.  
  Pricing  . Under the terms of the Cooperative Agreement with the DOC and the   .com   Registry Agreement with ICANN, we are restricted during the term of the Registry Agreement from increasing the price of registrations or renewals of .  com   domain names above $7.85, except that we are entitled to increase the price up to 7%, with the prior approval of the DOC, due to the imposition of any new ICANN consensus policies, as established and defined under ICANN s bylaws and due process, and covering certain items listed in the .  com   Registry Agreement, or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the security and stability of the DNS. However, it is uncertain that such circumstances will arise, or if they do, whether we would seek, or the DOC would approve, any request to increase the price for   .com   domain name registrations. We also have the right under the Cooperative Agreement to seek the removal of these pricing restrictions if we demonstrate to the DOC that market conditions no longer warrant such restrictions. However, it is uncertain whether we will seek the removal of such restrictions, or whether the DOC would approve the removal of such restrictions. In comparison, under the terms of the   .net   and   .name   Registry Agreements with ICANN, we are permitted to increase the price of domain name registrations and renewals in these TLDs up to 10% per year. Additionally, ICANN s registry agreements for new gTLDs do not contain such pricing restrictions. 
  Vertical integration  . Under the   .com  , .  net,   and .  name   Registry Agreements with ICANN, as well as the Cooperative Agreement with the DOC, we are not permitted to acquire, directly or indirectly, control of, or a greater than 15% ownership  
  
   10 

interest in, any ICANN-accredited registrar. Historically, all gTLD registry operators were subject to this vertical integration prohibition; however, ICANN has established a process whereby registry operators may seek ICANN s approval to remove this restriction, and ICANN has approved such removal in several instances. If we were to seek removal of the vertical integration restrictions contained in our agreements, it is uncertain whether ICANN and/or DOC approval would be obtained. Additionally, ICANN s registry agreement for new gTLDs generally permits such vertical integration, with certain limitations including ICANN s right, but not the obligation, to refer such vertical integration activities to competition authorities. Furthermore, such vertical integration restrictions do not generally apply to ccTLD registry operators. If registry operators of other TLDs, or ccTLDs, are able to obtain competitive advantages through such vertical integration, it could materially harm our business. 
  Renewal and Termination  . Our .  com  , .  net,   and .  name   Registry Agreements with ICANN contain  presumptive  rights of renewal upon the expiration of their current terms on November 30, 2024, June 30, 2023 and August 15, 2018, respectively. The Registry Agreements for our new gTLDs including our IDN gTLDs are subject to a 10-year term and contain similar  presumptive  renewal rights. If certain terms in our   .com   and   .net   Registry Agreements are not similar to such terms generally in effect in the registry agreements of the five largest gTLDs, then a renewal of these agreements shall be upon terms reasonably necessary to render such terms similar to the registry agreements for those other gTLDs. There can be no assurance that such terms, if they apply, will not have a material adverse impact on our business. A renewal of the .  com   Registry Agreement must be approved by the DOC, which, under certain circumstances, could refuse to grant its approval to the renewal of the   .com   Registry Agreement on similar terms, or at all. A failure (i) by ICANN or the DOC to approve the renewal of the   .com   Registry Agreement prior to the expiration of its current term on November 30, 2024, or (ii) by ICANN to approve the renewal of the .  net   Registry Agreement prior to or upon the expiration of its current term on June 30, 2023, would have, absent an extension, a material adverse effect on our business. ICANN could terminate or refuse to renew our .  com   or .  net   Registry Agreements if, upon proper notice, (i) we fail to cure a fundamental and material breach of certain specified obligations, and (ii) we fail to timely comply with a final decision of an arbitrator or court. ICANN s termination or refusal to renew either the .  com   or .  net   Registry Agreement would have a material adverse effect on our business.  
  Consensus Policies  . Our Registry Agreements with ICANN require us to implement Consensus Policies and specifications or policies established on a temporary basis ( Temporary Policies ). ICANN could adopt Consensus Policies or Temporary Policies that are unfavorable to us as the registry operator of   .com  ,   .net   and our other     gTLDs, that are inconsistent with our current or future plans, that impose substantial costs on our business, that subject the Company to additional legal risks, or that affect our competitive position. Such Consensus Policies or Temporary Policies could have a material adverse effect on our business. As an example, ICANN has adopted a Consensus Policy that requires Verisign to receive and display Thick WHOIS data for   .com   and .  net  . The costs of complying or failing to comply with this policy as well as laws and regulations regarding publicly identifiable information and data privacy, such as domestic and various foreign privacy regimes, could expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming investigations or litigation.  
  Legal Challenges  . Our Registry Agreements have faced, and could face in the future, challenges, including possible legal challenges, resulting from our activities or the activities of ICANN, registrars, registrants, and others, and any adverse outcome from such challenges could have a material adverse effect on our business. 
  Governmental regulation and the application of new and existing laws in the U.S. and overseas may slow business growth, increase our costs of doing business, create potential liability and have an adverse effect on our business. 
  Application of new and existing laws and regulations in the U.S. or overseas to the internet and communications industry can be unclear. The costs of complying or failing to comply with these laws and regulations could limit our ability to operate in our current markets, expose us to compliance costs and substantial liability, and result in costly and time-consuming litigation. For example, the government of the People s Republic of China ( PRC ) has indicated that it will issue, and in some instances has begun to issue, new regulations, and has begun to enforce existing regulations, that impose additional costs on, and risks to, our provision of Registry Services in the PRC and could impact the growth or renewal rates of domain name registrations in the PRC. In addition to registry operators, certain of such regulations will also require registrars to obtain a government-issued license for each TLD whose domain name registrations they intend to sell directly to registrants. Any failure to obtain the required licenses, or to comply with any license requirements or any updates thereto, by us or our registrars could impact the growth of our business in the PRC. 
  Foreign, federal or state laws could have an adverse impact on our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, and our ability to conduct business in certain foreign countries. For example, laws designed to restrict who can register and who can distribute domain names, the online distribution of certain materials deemed harmful to children, online gambling, counterfeit goods, and intellectual property violations such as cybersquatting; laws designed to require registrants to provide additional documentation or information in connection with domain name registrations; and laws designed to promote cyber security may impose significant additional costs on our business or subject us to additional liabilities. We have a contract  
  
   11 

pursuant to which we provide services to the U.S. government and it imposes compliance costs, including compliance with the Federal Acquisition Regulation, which could be significant to the Company. 
  To conduct our operations, we regularly move data across national borders and receive data originating from different jurisdictions, and consequently are subject to a variety of continuously evolving and developing laws and regulations in the United States and abroad regarding privacy, data protection and data security. The scope of the laws that may be applicable to us is often uncertain and may be conflicting, particularly with respect to foreign laws. For example, the European Union s General Data Protection Regulation, which greatly increases the jurisdictional reach of European Union law and adds a broad array of requirements for handling personal data, including the public disclosure of significant data breaches, becomes effective in May 2018. Other countries have enacted or are enacting data localization laws that require data to stay within their borders. All of these evolving compliance and operational requirements can impose significant costs for us that are likely to increase over time. 
  Due to the nature of the internet, it is possible that state or foreign governments might attempt to regulate internet transmissions or prosecute us for violations of their laws. We might unintentionally violate such laws, such laws may be modified, and new laws may be enacted in the future. In addition, as we launch our IDN gTLDs and increase our marketing efforts of our other TLDs in foreign countries, we may raise our profile in certain foreign countries thereby increasing the regulatory and other scrutiny of our operations. Any such developments could increase the costs of regulatory compliance for us, affect our reputation, force us to change our business practices or otherwise materially harm our business. In addition, any such new laws could impede growth of or result in a decline in domain name registrations, as well as impact the demand for our services. 
  Undetected or unknown defects in our service, security breaches, defects in the technologies and services in our supply chain, and DDoS attacks could expose us to liability and harm our business and reputation. 
  Services as complex as those we offer or develop could contain undetected defects or errors. Despite testing, defects or errors may occur in our existing or new services, which could result in compromised customer data, including DNS data, diversion of development resources, injury to our reputation, tort or contract claims, increased insurance costs or increased service costs, any of which could harm our business. Performance of our services could have unforeseen or unknown adverse effects on the networks over which they are delivered as well as, more broadly, on internet users and consumers, and third-party applications and services that utilize our services, which could result in legal claims against us, harming our business. Our failure to identify, remediate and mitigate security vulnerabilities and breaches or our inability to meet customer expectations in a timely manner could also result in loss of or delay in revenues, failure to meet contracted service level obligations, loss of market share, failure to achieve market acceptance, injury to our reputation and increased costs. 
  In addition to undetected defects or errors, we are also subject to cyber-attacks and attempted security breaches. We retain certain customer and employee information in our data centers and various domain name registration systems. It is critical to our business strategy that our facilities and infrastructure remain secure and are perceived by the marketplace to be secure. The Company, as an operator of critical internet infrastructure, is frequently targeted and experiences a high rate of attacks. These include the most sophisticated forms of attacks, such as advanced persistent threat attacks and zero-hour threats. These forms of attacks involve situations where the threat is not compiled or has been previously unobserved within our observation and threat indicators space until the moment it is launched. In addition, these forms of attacks may target specific unidentified or unresolved vulnerabilities that exist only within the target s supply chain or operating environment, making these attacks virtually impossible to anticipate and difficult to defend against. In addition to external threats, we may be subject to insider threats, including those from third-party suppliers such as consultants and advisors, SaaS providers, other outside vendors, or from current, former or contract employees; these threats can be realized from intentional or unintentional actions. The Shared Registration System, the root zone servers, the root zone file, the Root Zone Management System, the TLD name servers and the TLD zone files that we operate are critical to our Registry Services operations. Despite the significant time and money expended on our security measures, we have been subject to a security breach, as disclosed in our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended September 30, 2011, and our infrastructure may in the future be vulnerable to physical break-ins, outages resulting from destructive malcode, hardware defects, computer viruses, attacks by hackers or nefarious actors or similar disruptive problems, including hacktivism. It is possible that we may have to expend additional financial and other resources to address such problems. Any physical or electronic break-in or other security breach or compromise of the information stored at our data centers or domain name registration systems may cause an outage of or jeopardize the security of information stored on our premises or in the computer systems and networks of our customers. In such an event, we could face significant liability, fail to meet contracted service level obligations, customers could be reluctant to use our services and we could be at risk for loss of various security and standards-based compliance certifications needed for operation of our businesses, all or any of which could adversely affect our reputation and harm our business. Such an occurrence could also result in adverse publicity and therefore adversely affect the market s perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the security or reliability of our services. 
  
   12 

We use externally developed technology, systems and services including both hardware and software, for a variety of purposes, including, without limitation, compute, storage, encryption and authentication, back-office support, and other functions. While we have developed operational policies and procedures to reduce the impact of a security breach at a vendor where Company data is stored or processed, such measures cannot provide absolute security. Breaches of our vendors  technology, systems and services could expose us or our customers to a risk of loss or misuse of Company data, including but not limited to personal information. 
  Additionally, our networks have been, and likely will continue to be, subject to DDoS attacks. Recent attacks have demonstrated that DDoS attacks continue to grow in size and sophistication and have an ability to widely disrupt internet services. While we have adopted mitigation techniques, procedures and strategies to defend against such attacks, there can be no assurance that we will be able to defend against every attack, especially as the attacks increase in size and sophistication. Any attack, even if only partially successful, could disrupt our networks, increase response time, negatively impact our ability to meet our contracted service level obligations, and generally hamper our ability to provide reliable service to our Registry Services customers and the broader internet community. Further, we sell DDoS protection services to our Security Services customers. Although we increase our knowledge of and develop new techniques in the identification and mitigation of attacks through the protection of our Security Services customers, the DDoS protection services share some of the infrastructure used in our Registry Services business. Therefore the provision of such services might expose our critical Registry Services infrastructure to temporary degradations or outages caused by DDoS attacks against those customers, in addition to any attacks directed specifically against us and our networks. 
  Changes to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. 
  The internet is governed under a multi-stakeholder model comprising civil society, the private sector including for-profit and not-for-profit organizations such as ICANN, governments including the U.S. government, academia, non-governmental organizations and international organizations.  
  Role of the U.S. Government  . In the fourth quarter of 2016, the United States government completed a transition to the multistakeholder community of the historical role played by NTIA in the coordination of the DNS. Changes arising from this transition to the multi-stakeholder model of internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. For example, ICANN has adopted bylaws that are designed, in part, to enhance accountability through a new organization called the Empowered Community, which is comprised of a cross section of stakeholders. ICANN or the Empowered Community may assert positions that could negatively impact our strategy or our business.  
  By completing the transition discussed above, the U.S. Government through the NTIA has ended its coordination and management of important aspects of the DNS including the IANA functions and the root zone. There can be no assurance that the removal of the U.S. Government oversight of these key functions will not negatively impact our business. 
  Role of ICANN  . ICANN plays a central coordination role in the multi-stakeholder system. ICANN is mandated through its bylaws to uphold a private sector-led multi-stakeholder approach to internet governance for the public benefit. If ICANN or the Empowered Community fails to uphold or significantly redefines the multi-stakeholder model, it could harm our business. Additionally, the Empowered Community could adversely impact ICANN, which could negatively impact its ability to coordinate the multi-stakeholder system of governance, or negatively affect our interests. Also, legal, regulatory or other challenges could be brought challenging the legal authority underlying the roles and actions of ICANN, the Empowered Community or us. 
  Role of Foreign Governments  . Some governments and members of the multi-stakeholder community have questioned ICANN s role with respect to internet governance and, as a result, could seek a multilateral oversight body as a replacement. Additionally, the role of ICANN s Governmental Advisory Committee, which is comprised of representatives of national governments, could change, giving governments more control of certain aspects of internet governance. Some governments and governmental authorities outside the U.S. have in the past disagreed, and may in the future disagree, with the actions, policies or programs of ICANN, the U.S. Government and us relating to the DNS. Changes to the roles that foreign governments play in internet governance could materially and adversely impact our business. 
  
   13 

We face risks from our operation of two root zone servers and performance of the Root Zone Maintainer functions under the RZMA.  
  We operate two of the 13 root zone servers. Root zone servers are name servers that contain authoritative data for the very top of the DNS hierarchy. These servers have the software and DNS configuration data necessary to locate name servers that contain authoritative data for the TLDs. These root zone servers are critical to the functioning of the internet.  We also have an important operational role in support of a key IANA function as the Root Zone Maintainer.  In this role, we provision and publish the authoritative root zone data and make it available to all root server operators under an agreement with ICANN, the Root Zone Maintainer Service Agreement ( RZMA ).    
  As we perform the Root Zone Maintainer functions under the RZMA, we may be subject to significant claims challenging the agreement or our performance under the agreement, and we may not have immunity from, or sufficient indemnification for, such claims.  
  For example, DNSSEC enabled in the root zone and at other levels of the DNS requires new preventative maintenance, including root key signing key ( KSK ) rollover, functions and complex operational practices that did not exist prior to the introduction of DNSSEC. Any failure by us, ICANN, external DNS vendors and service providers, or relying parties to comply with stated practices, such as those outlined in relevant DNSSEC Practice Statements, introduces risk to DNSSEC relying parties and other internet users and consumers of the DNS, which could have a material adverse impact on our business. In particular, because root KSK rollover involves updates both to certain keys managed by us in our role as Root Zone Maintainer and to corresponding keys maintained by external DNS vendors and service providers  DNSSEC implementations, if such external parties are not adequately prepared for and/or do not appropriately effectuate root key updates, any root KSK rollover, including the rollover currently planned by ICANN, may introduce substantial risk to relying parties. Even where we have correctly implemented our key updates, we could face potential legal claims and reputational harm if the failures described occur. 
  Additionally, over 1,200 new gTLDs have already been delegated into the root zone in the current round of new gTLDs. ICANN plans on offering a subsequent round of new gTLDs , the timing of which remains uncertain.  As set forth in the Verisign Labs Technical Report #1130007 version 2.2: New gTLD Security and Stability Considerations released on March 28, 2013, and expanded upon in subsequent publications, we continue to believe there are potential security and stability issues that could involve the root zone and at other levels of the DNS from the deployment of the new gTLDs that should have been addressed before any new gTLDs were delegated, and despite our and others  efforts, some of these issues have not been addressed by ICANN sufficiently, if at all. For example, domain name collisions have been reported to ICANN, which have resulted in various network interruptions for enterprises as well as confusion and usability issues that have led to phishing attacks. It is anticipated that as additional new gTLDs are delegated more domain name collisions and associated security issues will occur. 
  The evolution of internet practices and behaviors and the adoption of substitute technologies may impact the demand for domain names. 
  Domain names and the domain name system have been used by consumers and businesses to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity for many years. The growth of technologies such as social media, mobile devices, apps and the dominance of search engines has evolved and changed the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses alike. These changes can impact the demand for domain names by those who purchase domain names for personal, commercial and investment reasons. Factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users and how they navigate the internet as well as the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will monetize their investment in domain names can negatively impact our business. Some domain name registrars and registrants seek to purchase and resell domain names following an increase in their value. Adverse changes in the resale value of domain names could result in a decrease in the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names in our TLDs obtained for resale. 
  Some domain name registrants use a domain name to access or disseminate information, conduct e-commerce, and develop an online identity. Currently, internet users often navigate to a website either by directly typing its domain name into a web browser, the use of an app on their smart phone or mobile device, the use of a voice recognition technology such as Alexa, Cortana, Google Assistant, or Siri, or through the use of a search engine. If (i) web browser or internet search technologies were to change significantly; (ii) internet users  preferences or practices shift away from recognizing and relying on web addresses for navigation through the use of new and existing technologies; (iii) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of web browsers in favor of applications to locate and access content; (iv) internet users were to significantly decrease the use of domain names to develop and protect their online identity; or (v) internet users were to increasingly use third level domains or alternate identifiers, such as social networking and microblogging sites, in each case the demand for domain names in our TLDs could decrease. This may trigger current or prospective customers and parties in our target markets to reevaluate their need for registration or renewal of domain names. 
  
   14 

Some domain name registrars and registrants seek to generate revenue through advertising on their websites; changes in the way these registrars and registrants are compensated (including changes in methodologies and metrics) by advertisers and advertisement placement networks, such as Google, Yahoo!, Baidu and Bing, have, and may continue to, adversely affect the market for those domain names favored by such registrars and registrants which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, a decrease in demand and/or the renewal rate for those domain names. For example, according to published reports, Google has in the past changed (and may change in the future) its search algorithm, which may decrease site traffic to certain websites and provide less pay-per-click compensation for certain types of websites. This has made such websites less profitable which has resulted in, and may continue to result in, fewer domain registrations and renewals. In addition, as a result of the general economic environment, spending on online advertising and marketing may not increase or may be reduced, which in turn, may result in a further decline in the demand for those domain names. 
  If any of the above factors negatively impact the renewal of domain names or the demand for new domain names, we may experience material adverse impacts on our business, operating results, financial condition and cash flows. 
  Many of our markets are evolving, and if these markets fail to develop or if our products and services are not widely accepted in these markets, our business could be harmed. 
  We seek to serve many new, developing and emerging markets in foreign countries to grow our business. These markets are rapidly evolving, and may not grow. Even if these markets grow, our services may not be widely used or accepted. Accordingly, the demand for our services in these markets is very uncertain. The factors that may affect market acceptance or adoption of our services in these markets include the following: 
             
    regional internet infrastructure development, expansion, penetration and adoption; 
                
    market acceptance and adoption of substitute products and services that enable online presence without a domain, including social media, ecommerce platforms, website builders and mobile applications;  
                
    public perception of the security of our technologies and of IP and other networks;  
                
    the introduction and consumer acceptance of new generations of mobile devices, and in particular the use of internet navigation mobile applications as the primary engagement mechanism;  
                
    increasing cyber threats and the associated customer need and demand for our Security Services offerings; 
                
    government regulations affecting internet access and availability, domain name registrations or the provision of registry services, or e-commerce and telecommunications over the internet; 
                
    the maturity and depth of the sales channels within developing and emerging markets and their ability and motivation to establish and support sales for domain names; 
                
    preference by markets for the use of their own country s ccTLDs as a substitute or alternative to our TLDs; and 
                
    increased acceptance and use of new gTLDs as substitutes for established gTLDs. 
     If the market for e-commerce and communications over IP and other networks does not grow or these services are not widely accepted in the market, our business could be materially harmed. 
    
  The business environment is highly competitive and, if we do not compete effectively, we may suffer lower demand for our products, reduced gross margins and loss of market share. 
  The internet and communications network services industries are characterized by rapid technological change and frequent new product and service announcements which require us continually to improve the performance, features and reliability of our services, particularly in response to competitive offerings or alternatives to our products and services. In order to remain competitive and retain our market position, we must continually improve our access to technology and software, support the latest transmission technologies, and adapt our products and services to changing market conditions and our customers  and internet users  preferences and practices, or launch entirely new products and services such as new gTLDs in anticipation of, or in response to, market trends. We cannot assure that competing technologies developed by others or the emergence of new industry standards will not adversely affect our competitive position or render our services or technologies noncompetitive or obsolete. In addition, our markets are characterized by announcements of collaborative relationships involving our competitors. The existence or announcement of any such relationships could adversely affect our ability to attract and retain customers. As a result of the foregoing and other factors, we may not be able to compete effectively with current or future competitors, and competitive pressures that we face could materially harm our business. 
  
   15 

We face competition in the domain name registry space from other gTLD and ccTLD registries that are competing for the business of entities and individuals that are seeking to obtain a domain name registration and/or establish a web presence. We have been designated as the registry operator for new gTLDs including certain IDN gTLDs; however, there is no guarantee that such new gTLDs will be as or more successful than the new gTLDs obtained by our competitors. For example, some of the new gTLDs, including our new gTLDs, may face additional universal acceptance and usability challenges in that current desktop and mobile device software does not ubiquitously recognize these new gTLDs and developers of desktop and mobile device software may be slow to adopt standards or support these gTLDs, even if demand for such products is strong. This is particularly true for IDN gTLDs, but applies to conventional gTLDs as well. As a result of these challenges, it is possible that resolution of domain names within some of these new gTLDs may be blocked within certain state or organizational environments, challenging universal resolvability of these strings and their general acceptance and usability on the internet. 
  See the  Competition  section in Part I, Item 1 for further information. 
  We must establish and maintain strong relationships with registrars and their resellers to maintain their focus on marketing our products and services otherwise our Registry Service business could be harmed. 
  All of our domain name registrations occur through registrars. Registrars and their resellers utilize substantial marketing efforts to increase the demand and/or renewal rates for domain names as well as their own associated offerings. Consolidation in the registrar or reseller industry or changes in ownership, management, or strategy among individual registrars or resellers could result in significant changes to their business, operating model and cost structure. Such changes could include reduced marketing efforts or other operational changes that could adversely impact the demand and/or the renewal rates for domain names.  
  With the introduction of new gTLDs, many of our registrars have chosen to, and may continue to choose to, focus their short or long-term marketing efforts on these new offerings and/or reduce the prominence or visibility of our products and services on their e-commerce platforms. Our registrars and resellers sell domain name registrations of other competing registries, including the new gTLDs, and some also sell and support their own services for websites such as email, website hosting, as well as other services. Therefore, our registrars and resellers may be more motivated to sell to registrants to whom they can also market their own services. To the extent that registrars and their resellers focus more on selling and supporting their services and less on the registration and renewal of domain names in our TLDs, our revenues could be adversely impacted. Our ability to successfully market our services to, and build and maintain strong relationships with, new and existing registrars or resellers is a factor upon which successful operation of our business is dependent. If we are unable to keep a significant portion of their marketing efforts focused on selling registrations of domain names in our TLDs as opposed to other competing TLDs, including the new gTLDs, or their own services, our business could be harmed. 
  If we encounter system interruptions or failures, we could be exposed to liability and our reputation and business could suffer. 
  We depend on the uninterrupted operation of our various systems, secure data centers and other computer and communication networks. Our systems and operations are vulnerable to damage or interruption from: 
             
    power loss, transmission cable cuts and other telecommunications failures;  
                
    damage or interruption caused by fire, earthquake, and other natural disasters;  
                
    attacks, including hacktivism, by miscreants or other nefarious actors;  
                
    computer viruses, software defects, or hardware defects;  
                
    physical or electronic break-ins, sabotage, intentional acts of vandalism, terrorist attacks, unintentional mistakes or errors, and other events beyond our control;  
                
    risks inherent in or arising from the terms and conditions of our agreements with service providers to operate our networks and data centers; 
                
    state suppression of internet operations; and  
                
    any failure to implement effective and timely remedial actions in response to any damage or interruption.  
     Most of the computing infrastructure for our Shared Registration System is located at, and most of our customer information is stored in, our facilities in New Castle, Delaware; Dulles, Virginia; and Fribourg, Switzerland. To the extent we are unable to partially or completely switch over to our primary alternate or tertiary sites, any damage or failure that causes interruptions in any of these facilities or our other computer and communications systems could materially harm our business. Although we carry insurance for property damage, we do not carry insurance or financial reserves for such interruptions, or for potential losses arising from terrorism. 
  
   16 

In addition, our Registry Services business and certain of our other services depend on the secure and efficient operation of the internet connections to and from customers to our Shared Registration System residing in our secure data centers. These connections depend upon the secure and efficient operation of internet service providers, internet exchange point operators, and internet backbone service providers, some or all of which have had periodic operational problems or experienced outages in the past beyond our scope of control. In addition, if these service providers do not protect, maintain, improve, and reinvest in their networks or present inconsistent data regarding the DNS through their networks, our business could be harmed. 
  A failure in the operation or update of the root zone servers, the root zone file, the Root Zone Management System, the TLD name servers, or the TLD zone files that we operate, including, for example, our operation of the   .gov   registry, or other network functions, could result in a DNS resolution or other service outage or degradation; the deletion of one or more TLDs from the internet; the deletion of one or more second-level domain names from the internet for a period of time; or a misdirection of a domain name to a different server. A failure in the operation or update of the supporting cryptographic and other operational infrastructure that we maintain could result in similar consequences. A failure in the operation of our Shared Registration System could result in the inability of one or more registrars to register or maintain domain names for a period of time. In the event that a registrar has not implemented back-up services in conformance with industry best practices, the failure could result in permanent loss of transactions at the registrar during that period. Any of these problems or outages could create potential liability, including liability arising from a failure to meet our service level agreements in our Registry Agreements, and could decrease customer satisfaction, harming our business or resulting in adverse publicity and damage to our reputation that could adversely affect the market s perception of the security of e-commerce and communications over the internet as well as of the reliability of our services or call into question our ability to preserve the security and stability of the internet. 
  Our operating results may be adversely affected as a result of unfavorable market, economic, social and political conditions. 
  An unfavorable global economic, social and political environment has impacted or may negatively impact, among other things: 
             
    our customers  continued growth and development of their businesses and our customers  ability to continue as going concerns or maintain their businesses, which could affect demand for our products and services;  
                
    current and future demand for our services, including decreases as a result of reduced spending on information technology and communications by our customers;  
                
    price competition for our products and services;  
                
    the price of our common stock;  
                
    our liquidity and our associated ability to execute on any share repurchase plans; and  
                
    our ability to service our debt, to obtain financing or assume new debt obligations. 
     In addition, to the extent that the economic, social and political environment impacts specific industry and geographic sectors in which many of our customers are concentrated, that may have a disproportionate negative impact on our business. 
  Our international operations subject our business to additional economic, legal and political risks that could have an adverse impact on our revenues and business. 
  A significant portion of our revenues is derived from customers outside the U.S. Doing business in international markets has required and will continue to require significant management attention and resources. We may also need to tailor some of our services for a particular market and to enter into international distribution and operating relationships. We may fail to maintain our ability to conduct business, including potentially material business operations in some international locations, or we may not succeed in expanding our services into new international markets or expand our presence in existing markets. Failure to do so could materially harm our business. Moreover, local laws and customs in many countries differ significantly from those in the U.S. In many foreign countries, particularly in those with developing economies, it is common for others to engage in business practices that are prohibited by our internal policies and procedures or U.S. law or regulations applicable to us. There can be no assurance that our employees, contractors and agents will not take actions in violation of such policies, procedures, laws and/or regulations. Violations of laws, regulations or internal policies and procedures by our employees, contractors or agents could result in financial reporting problems, investigations, fines, penalties, or prohibition on the importation or exportation of our products and services and could have a material adverse effect on our business. In addition, we face risks inherent in doing business on an international basis, including, among others: 
             
    competition with foreign companies or other domestic companies entering the foreign markets in which we operate, as well as foreign governments actively promoting their ccTLDs, which we do not operate;  
                
    legal uncertainty regarding liability, enforcing our contracts, and compliance with foreign laws;  
     
   17 

tariffs and other trade barriers and restrictions;  
                
    difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; 
                
    currency fluctuations;  
                
    potential problems associated with adapting our services to technical conditions existing in different countries;  
                
    difficulty of verifying customer information, including complying with the customer verification requirements of certain countries;  
                
    more stringent privacy policies in some foreign countries;  
                
    additional vulnerability from terrorist groups targeting U.S. interests abroad;  
                
    potentially conflicting or adverse tax consequences; 
                
    reliance on third parties in foreign markets in which we only recently started doing business; and  
                
    potential concerns of international customers and prospects regarding doing business with U.S. technology companies due to alleged U.S. government data collection policies. 
     We rely on our intellectual property rights to protect our proprietary assets, and any failure by us to protect or enforce, or any misappropriation of, our intellectual property could harm our business. 
  Our success depends in part on our internally developed technologies and related intellectual property. Despite our precautions, it may be possible for an external party to copy or otherwise obtain and use our intellectual property without authorization. Furthermore, the laws of foreign countries may not protect our proprietary rights in those countries to the same extent U.S. law protects these rights in the U.S. In addition, it is possible that others may independently develop substantially equivalent intellectual property. If we do not effectively protect our intellectual property, our business could suffer. Additionally, we have filed patent applications with respect to some of our technology in the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office and patent offices outside the U.S. Patents may not be awarded with respect to these applications and even if such patents are awarded, third parties may seek to oppose or otherwise challenge our patents, and such patents  scope may differ significantly from what was requested in the patent applications and may not provide us with sufficient protection of our intellectual property. In the future, we may have to resort to litigation to enforce and protect our intellectual property rights, to protect our trade secrets or to determine the validity and scope of the proprietary rights of others. This type of litigation is inherently unpredictable and, regardless of its outcome, could result in substantial costs and diversion of management attention and technical resources. Some of the software and protocols used in our business are based on standards set by standards setting organizations such as the Internet Engineering Task Force. To the extent any of our patents are considered  standards essential patents,  we may be required to license such patents to our competitors on reasonable and non-discriminatory terms. 
  We also license externally developed technology that is used in some of our products and services to perform key functions. These externally developed technology licenses may not continue to be available to us on commercially reasonable terms or at all. The loss of or our inability to obtain or maintain any of these technology licenses could hinder or increase the cost of our launching new products and services, entering into new markets and/or otherwise harm our business. Some of the software and protocols used in our Registry Services business are in the public domain or may otherwise become publicly available, which means that such software and protocols are equally available to our competitors. 
  We rely on the strength of our Verisign brand to help differentiate Verisign in the marketing of our products. Dilution of the strength of our brand could harm our business. We are at risk that we will be unable to fully register, build equity in, or enforce the Verisign logo in all markets where Verisign products and services are sold. In addition, in the U.S. and most other countries, word marks solely for TLDs have currently not been successfully registered as trademarks. Accordingly, we may not be able to fully realize or maintain the value of these intellectual property assets. 
  
   18 

We could become subject to claims of infringement of intellectual property of others, which could be costly to defend and could harm our business. 
  We cannot be certain that we do not and will not infringe the intellectual property rights of others. Claims relating to infringement of intellectual property of others or other similar claims have been made against us in the past and could be made against us in the future. It is possible that we could become subject to additional claims for infringement of the intellectual property of other parties. The international use of our logo could present additional potential risks for external party claims of infringement. Any claims, with or without merit, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation and diversion of technical and management personnel attention, cause delays in our business activities generally, or require us to develop a non-infringing logo or technology or enter into royalty or licensing agreements. Royalty or licensing agreements, if required, may not be available on acceptable terms or at all. If a successful claim of infringement were made against us, we could be required to pay damages or have portions of our business enjoined. If we could not identify and adopt an alternative non-infringing logo, develop non-infringing technology or license the infringed or similar technology on a timely and cost-effective basis, our business could be harmed. 
  An external party could claim that the technology we license from other parties infringes a patent or other proprietary right. Litigation between the licensor and a third party or between us and a third party could lead to royalty obligations for which we are not indemnified or for which indemnification is insufficient, or we may not be able to obtain any additional license on commercially reasonable terms or at all. 
  In addition, legal standards relating to the validity, enforceability, and scope of protection of intellectual property rights in internet-related businesses, including patents related to software and business methods, are uncertain and evolving. Because of the growth of the internet and internet-related businesses, patent applications are continuously being filed in connection with internet-related technology. There are a significant number of U.S. and foreign patents and patent applications in our areas of interest, and we believe that there has been, and is likely to continue to be, significant litigation in the industry regarding patent and other intellectual property rights. 
  We could become involved in claims, lawsuits, audits or investigations that may result in adverse outcomes. 
  In addition to possible intellectual property litigation and infringement claims, we are, and may in the future, become involved in other claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations, including with respect to the RZMA. Such proceedings may initially be viewed as immaterial but could prove to be material. Litigation is inherently unpredictable, and excessive verdicts do occur. Adverse outcomes in lawsuits, audits and investigations could result in significant monetary damages, including indemnification payments, or injunctive relief that could adversely affect our ability to conduct our business and may have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. Given the inherent uncertainties in litigation,  even when we are able to reasonably estimate the amount of possible loss or range of loss and therefore record an aggregate litigation accrual for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies, the accrual may change in the future due to new developments or changes in approach.  In addition, such claims, lawsuits, audits and investigations could involve significant expense and diversion of management s attention and resources from other matters.  
  We continue to explore new strategic initiatives, the pursuit of any of which may pose significant risks and could have a material adverse effect on our business, financial condition and results of operations. 
  We explore possible strategic initiatives which may include, among other things, the investment in, and the pursuit of, new revenue streams, services or products, changes to our offerings, initiatives to leverage our patent portfolio, our Security Services business, back-end registry services and IDN gTLDs. In addition, we have evaluated and are pursuing and will continue to evaluate and pursue acquisitions of TLDs that are currently in operation and those that have not yet been awarded or delegated as long as they support our growth strategy. 
  Any such strategic initiative may involve a number of risks, including: the diversion of our management s attention from our existing business to develop the initiative, related operations and any requisite personnel; possible regulatory scrutiny or third-party claims; possible material adverse effects on our results of operations during and after the development process; our possible inability to achieve the intended objectives of the initiative; as well as damage to our reputation if we are unsuccessful in pursuing a strategic initiative. Such initiatives may result in a reduction of cash or increased costs. We may not be able to successfully or profitably develop, integrate, operate, maintain and manage any such initiative and the related operations or employees in a timely manner or at all. Furthermore, under our agreements with ICANN, we are subject to certain restrictions in the operation of   .com  ,   .net,     .name   and other TLDs, including required ICANN approval of new registry services for such TLDs. If any new initiative requires ICANN review or ICANN determines that such a review is required, we cannot predict whether this process will prevent us from implementing the initiative in a timely manner or at all. Any strategic initiative to leverage our patent portfolio will likely increase litigation risks from potential licensees and we may have to resort to litigation to enforce our intellectual property rights. 
  
   19 

We depend on key employees to manage our business effectively, and we may face difficulty attracting and retaining qualified leaders. 
  We operate in a unique competitive and highly regulated environment, and we depend on the knowledge, experience, and performance of our senior management team and other key employees in this regard and otherwise. We periodically experience changes in our management team. If we are unable to attract, integrate, retain and motivate these key individuals and additional highly skilled technical, sales and marketing, and other experienced employees, and implement succession plans for these personnel, our business may suffer. For example, our service products are highly technical and require individuals skilled and knowledgeable in unique platforms, operating systems and software development tools.  
  Changes in, or interpretations of, tax rules and regulations or our tax positions may adversely affect our income taxes. 
  We are subject to income taxes in both the U.S. and numerous foreign jurisdictions. Significant judgment is required in determining our worldwide provision for income taxes. In the ordinary course of our business, there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our effective tax rates may fluctuate significantly on a quarterly basis because of a variety of factors, including changes in the mix of earnings and losses in countries with differing statutory tax rates, changes in our business or structure, or the expiration of or disputes about certain tax agreements in a particular country. We are subject to audit by various tax authorities. In accordance with U.S. GAAP, we recognize income tax benefits, net of required valuation allowances and accrual for uncertain tax positions. For example, we claimed a worthless stock deduction on our 2013 federal income tax return and recorded a net income tax benefit of $380.1 million. Although we believe our tax estimates are reasonable, the final determination of tax audits and any related litigation could be materially different than that which is reflected in historical income tax provisions and accruals. Should additional taxes be assessed as a result of an audit or litigation, an adverse effect on our results of operations, financial condition and cash flows in the period or periods for which that determination is made could result. 
  The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( Tax Act ) was enacted on December 22, 2017. The Tax Act significantly revamped U.S. taxation of corporations, including a reduction of the federal income tax rate from 35% to 21%, a limitation on interest deductibility, and a new tax regime for foreign earnings. The limitation on interest deductibility, the new U.S. taxes on accumulated and future foreign earnings, other adverse changes resulting from the Tax Act, or a change in the mix of domestic and foreign earnings, might offset the benefit from the reduced tax rate, and our future effective tax rates and/or cash taxes may increase, even significantly, or not decrease much, compared to recent or historical trends. Many of the provisions of the Tax Act are highly complex and may be subject to further interpretive guidance from the IRS or others. Some of the provisions of the Tax Act may be changed by a future Congress or challenged by the World Trade Organization ( WTO ) or be subject to trade or tax retaliation by other countries. Although we cannot predict the nature or outcome of such future interpretive guidance, or actions by a future Congress, WTO or other countries, they could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows. We might also reassess our capital structure, including the amount and composition of our total indebtedness, as a result of the lower tax rate and the limitation on interest deductibility, which could adversely impact our financial condition, results of operations and cash flows.  Income tax expense on accumulated foreign earnings recorded as a result of the Tax Act is a provisional amount and reflects our current best estimate, which may be adjusted over the course of 2018 and materially impact our results of operations.  
  Our marketable securities portfolio could experience a decline in market value, which could materially and adversely affect our financial results. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we had   $2.4 billion   in cash, cash equivalents, marketable securities and restricted cash, of which   $1.9 billion   was invested in marketable securities. The marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through the investment in investment grade securities. We currently do not use derivative financial instruments to adjust our investment portfolio risk or income profile. 
  These investments, as well as any cash deposited in bank accounts, are subject to general credit, liquidity, market and interest rate risks, which may be exacerbated by financial market credit and liquidity events. If the global credit or liquidity market deteriorates or other events negatively impact the market for U.S. Treasury securities, our investment portfolio may be impacted and we could determine that some of our investments have experienced an other-than-temporary decline in fair value, requiring an impairment charge which could adversely impact our results of operations and cash flows. 
  
   20 

We are subject to the risks of owning real property. 
  We own the land and building in Reston, Virginia, which constitutes our headquarters facility. Ownership of this property, as well as our data centers in Dulles, Virginia and New Castle, Delaware, may subject us to risks, including: 
             
    adverse changes in the value of the properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, easements or other encumbrances, a government exercising its right of eminent domain, or other factors;  
                
    ongoing maintenance expenses and costs of improvements;  
                
    the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with environmental, health and safety, zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements;  
                
    the possibility of environmental contamination or notices of violation from federal or state environmental agencies; and 
                
    possible disputes with neighboring owners, tenants, service providers or others.  
     We have anti-takeover protections that may discourage, delay or prevent a change in control that could benefit our stockholders. 
  Our amended and restated Certificate of Incorporation and Bylaws contain provisions that could make it more difficult for an outside party to acquire us without the consent of our Board of Directors ( Board ). These provisions include: 
             
    our stockholders may take action only at a duly called meeting and not by written consent;  
                
    special meetings of our stockholders may be called only by the chairman of the board of directors, the president, our Board, or the secretary (acting as a representative of the stockholders) whenever a stockholder or group of stockholders owning at least twenty-five percent (25%) in the aggregate of the capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote, and who held that amount in a net long position continuously for at least one year, so request in writing;  
                
    vacancies on our Board can be filled until the next annual meeting of stockholders by a majority of directors then in office; and  
                
    our Board has the ability to designate the terms of and issue new series of preferred stock without stockholder approval.  
     In addition, Section 203 of the General Corporation Law of Delaware prohibits a publicly held Delaware corporation from engaging in a business combination with an interested stockholder, generally a person which together with its affiliates owns or within the last three years has owned 15% or more of our voting stock, for a period of three years after the date of the transaction in which the person became an interested stockholder, unless in the same transaction the interested stockholder acquired 85% ownership of our voting stock (excluding certain shares) or the business combination is approved in a prescribed manner. Section 203 therefore may impact the ability of an acquirer to complete an acquisition of us after a successful tender offer and accordingly could discourage, delay or prevent an acquirer from making an unsolicited offer without the approval of our Board. 
  We have a considerable number of common shares subject to future issuance. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we had one billion authorized common shares, of which 97.6 million shares were outstanding. In addition, of our authorized common shares, 14.0 million common shares were reserved for issuance pursuant to outstanding equity and employee stock purchase plans ( Equity Plans ), and 36.4 million shares were reserved for issuance upon conversion of our 3.25% Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures due 2037 ( Subordinated Convertible Debentures ). As a result, we keep substantial amounts of our common stock available for issuance upon exercise or settlement of equity awards outstanding under our Equity Plans and/or the conversion of Subordinated Convertible Debentures into our common stock. In February 2018, we called for the redemption of all the outstanding Subordinated Convertible Debentures.  The debentures will be redeemed on May 1, 2018 and may be converted at any time before the close of business on Monday, April 30, 2018. If holders elect to convert their debentures, we intend to settle the $1.25 billion principal value in cash, and the excess value will be settled through the issuance of shares of Verisign s stock. Issuance of shares to settle the Subordinated Convertible Debentures or under our Equity Plans would be dilutive to existing security holders, could adversely affect the prevailing market price of our common stock and could impair our ability to raise additional capital through the sale of equity securities. 
  
   21 

Our financial condition and results of operations could be adversely affected if we do not effectively manage our indebtedness. 
  We have a significant amount of outstanding debt, and we may incur additional indebtedness in the future. Our substantial indebtedness, including any future indebtedness, requires us to dedicate a significant portion of our cash flow from operations or to arrange alternative liquidity sources to make principal and interest payments, when due, or to repurchase or settle our debt, if triggered, by certain corporate events, certain events of default, or conversion. It could also limit our flexibility in planning for or reacting to changes in our business and our industry, or make required capital expenditures and investments in our business; make it difficult or more expensive to refinance our debt or obtain new debt; trigger an event of default; and increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions. Some of our debt contains covenants which may limit our operating flexibility, including restrictions on share repurchases, dividends, prepayment or repurchase of debt, acquisitions, disposing of assets, if we do not continue to meet certain financial ratios. Any rating assigned to our debt securities could be lowered or withdrawn by a rating agency, which could make it more difficult or more expensive for us to obtain additional debt financing in the future. The occurrence of any of the foregoing factors could have a material adverse effect on our business, cash flows, results of operations and financial condition. 

ITEM 1B. 
    UNRESOLVED STAFF COMMENTS  
       
  None. 

22 

Table of Contents  

ITEM 2. 
    PROPERTIES  
     Our corporate headquarters are located in Reston, Virginia. We have administrative, sales, marketing, research and development and operations facilities located in the U.S., Europe, Asia, and Australia. As of   December 31, 2017  , we owned approximately 454,000 square feet of space, which includes facilities in Reston and Dulles, Virginia and New Castle, Delaware. As of   December 31, 2017  , we leased approximately 17,000 square feet of space in Europe, Australia and Asia.  These facilities are under lease agreements that expire at various dates through 2022.  
    
  We believe that our existing facilities are well maintained and in good operating condition, and are sufficient for our needs for the foreseeable future. The following table lists our major locations and primary use as of   December 31, 2017  :  

The table above does not include approximately 68,000 square feet of space owned by us and leased to third parties.  

ITEM 3. 
    LEGAL PROCEEDINGS 
     On January 18, 2017, the Company received a Civil Investigative Demand from the Antitrust Division of the United States Department of Justice ( DOJ ) requesting certain material related to the Company becoming the registry operator for the .  web   gTLD.   On January 9, 2018, the DOJ notified the Company that this investigation was closed.    

ITEM 4. 
    MINE SAFETY DISCLOSURES 
       
  Not applicable. 

23 

Table of Contents  

EXECUTIVE OFFICERS OF THE REGISTRANT 
    
  The following table sets forth information regarding our executive officers as of February 16, 2018: 
    
                         Name 
      
    Age 
      
    Position 
      D. James Bidzos 
      
    62 

Executive Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer 
      Todd B. Strubbe 
      
    54 

Executive Vice President, Chief Operating Officer 
      George E. Kilguss, III 
      
    57 

Executive Vice President, Chief Financial Officer 
      Thomas C. Indelicarto 
      
    54 

Executive Vice President, General Counsel and Secretary 

D. James Bidzos   has served as Executive Chairman since August 2009 and President and Chief Executive Officer since August 2011. He served as Executive Chairman and Chief Executive Officer on an interim basis from June 2008 to August 2009 and served as President from June 2008 to January 2009. He served as Chairman of the Board since August 2007 and from April 1995 to December 2001. He served as Vice Chairman of the Board from December 2001 to August 2007. Mr. Bidzos served as a director of VeriSign Japan from March 2008 to August 2010 and served as Representative Director of VeriSign Japan from March 2008 to September 2008. Mr. Bidzos served as Vice Chairman of RSA Security Inc., an Internet identity and access management solution provider, from March 1999 to May 2002, and Executive Vice President from July 1996 to February 1999. Prior thereto, he served as President and Chief Executive Officer of RSA Data Security, Inc. from 1986 to February 1999.  
    
  Todd B. Strubbe   has served as Chief Operating Officer since April 2015.  From September 2009 to April 2015, he served as the President of the Unified Communications Business Segment for West Corporation, a provider of technology-driven communications services. Prior to this, he was a co-founder and Managing Partner of Arbor Capital, LLC. He has also served in executive leadership positions at First Data Corporation and CompuBank, N.A. and as an associate and then as an engagement manager with McKinsey   Company, Inc. He also served for five years as an infantry officer with the United States Army. Mr. Strubbe holds an M.B.A. degree from Harvard Business School and a B.S. degree from the United States Military Academy at West Point. 
  George E. Kilguss, III   has served as Chief Financial Officer since May 2012. From April 2008 to May 2012, he was the Chief Financial Officer of Internap Network Services Corporation, an IT infrastructure solutions company.  From December 2003 to December 2007, he served as the Chief Financial Officer of Towerstream Corporation, a company that delivers high speed wireless Internet access to businesses. Mr. Kilguss holds an M.B.A. degree from the University of Chicago s Graduate School of Business and a B.S. degree in Economics and Finance from the University of Hartford. 
  Thomas C. Indelicarto     has served as General Counsel and Secretary since November 2014. From September 2008 to November 2014, he served as Vice President and Associate General Counsel. From January 2006 to September 2008, he served as Litigation Counsel.  Prior to joining the Company, Mr. Indelicarto was in private practice as an associate at Arnold   Porter LLP and Buchanan Ingersoll (now, Buchanan Ingersoll   Rooney, PC).  Mr. Indelicarto also served as a U.S. Army officer for nine years.  Mr. Indelicarto holds a J.D. degree from the University of Pittsburgh School of Law and a B.S. degree from Indiana University of Pennsylvania.  

24 

PART II    

ITEM 5. 
    MARKET FOR REGISTRANT S COMMON EQUITY, RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS AND ISSUER PURCHASES OF EQUITY SECURITIES  
       
  Price Range of Common Stock  
    
  Our common stock is traded on the NASDAQ Global Select Market under the symbol  VRSN.  The following table sets forth, for the periods indicated, the high and low sales prices per share for our common stock as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market:  

On February 9, 2018, there were 426 holders of record of our common stock. We cannot estimate the number of beneficial owners since many brokers and other institutions hold our stock on behalf of stockholders. On February 9, 2018, the reported last sale price of our common stock was $109.09 per share as reported by the NASDAQ Global Select Market. 
    
  We have not declared or paid any cash dividends on our common stock or any other securities in the last six years.  We continually evaluate the overall cash and investing needs of the business and consider the best uses for our cash, including investments in the strengthening of our infrastructure and growth opportunities for our business, as well as potential share repurchases. 
  For information regarding securities authorized for issuance under our equity compensation plans, see Note 8,  Employee Benefits and Stock-based Compensation,  of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. 
    
  Share Repurchases  
  The following table presents the share repurchase activity during the three months ended   December 31, 2017  : 

(1) 
    Effective February 9, 2017, our Board authorized the repurchase of approximately $640.9 million of our common stock, in addition to the $359.1 million of our common stock remaining available for repurchase under the previous share repurchase program, for a total repurchase authorization of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock.  
       
           (2) 
    Effective February 8, 2018, our Board authorized the repurchase of approximately $585.8 million of our common stock, in addition to the $414.2 million of our common stock remaining available for repurchase under the previous share repurchase program, for a total repurchase authorization of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock. The share repurchase program has no expiration date. Purchases made under the program could be effected through open market transactions, block purchases, accelerated share repurchase agreements or other negotiated transactions. 
     
   25 

Performance Graph  
    
  The information contained in the Performance Graph shall not be deemed to be  soliciting material  or  filed  with the SEC or subject to the liabilities of Section 18 of the Exchange Act, except to the extent that we specifically incorporate it by reference into a document filed under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended (the  Securities Act ), or the Exchange Act.  
    
  The following graph compares the cumulative total stockholder return on our common stock, the Standard and Poor s ( S P ) 500 Index, and the S P 500 Information Technology Index. The graph assumes that $100 (and the reinvestment of any dividends thereafter) was invested in our common stock, the S P 500 Index and the S P 500 Information Technology Index on December 31, 2012, and calculates the return annually through   December 31, 2017  . The stock price performance on the following graph is not necessarily indicative of future stock price performance.  

26 

ITEM 6. 
    SELECTED FINANCIAL DATA  
       
  The following table sets forth selected financial data as of and for the last five fiscal years. The information set forth below is not necessarily indicative of results of future operations, and should be read in conjunction with Item 7,  Management s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations,  and our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K, to fully understand factors that may affect the comparability of the information presented below.     
    
     Selected Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income Data:   (in millions, except per share data)    

(1) 
    Income from continuing operations for 2013 includes a $375.3 million income tax benefit related to a worthless stock deduction, net of valuation allowances, and accrual for uncertain tax positions, partially offset by $167.1 million of income tax expense related to the repatriation of cash held by foreign subsidiaries. 

Consolidated Balance Sheet Data:   (in millions)    

(1) 
    The increase in Long-term debt from 2016 to 2017 was due to the issuance of $550.0 million aggregate principal amount of 4.75% senior unsecured notes due 2027. The increase in Long-term debt from 2014 to 2015 was due to the issuance  of $500.0 million aggregate principal amount of 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2025.  The proceeds from these senior notes issuances resulted in the increase in cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities as well as total assets in the same periods. 
     
   27 

ITEM 7.  MANAGEMENT S DISCUSSION AND ANALYSIS OF FINANCIAL CONDITION AND RESULTS OF OPERATIONS 
    
  FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS  
    
  This Report on Form 10-K contains forward-looking statements within the meaning of Section 27A of the Securities Act and Section 21E of the Exchange Act. These forward-looking statements involve risks and uncertainties, including, among other things, statements regarding our anticipated costs and expenses and revenue mix. Forward-looking statements include, among others, those statements including the words  expects,   anticipates,   intends,   believes  and similar language. Our actual results may differ significantly from those projected in the forward-looking statements. Factors that might cause or contribute to such differences include, but are not limited to, those discussed in the section titled  Risk Factors  in Part I, Item 1A of this Form 10-K. You are cautioned not to place undue reliance on the forward-looking statements, which speak only as of the date of this Form 10-K. We undertake no obligation to publicly release any revisions to the forward-looking statements or reflect events or circumstances after the date of this document.  

Overview 
  We are a global provider of domain name registry services and internet security, enabling internet navigation for many of the world s most recognized domain names and providing protection for websites and enterprises around the world. Our Registry Services ensure the security, stability and resiliency of key internet infrastructure and services, including the   .com   and   .net   domains, two of the internet s root servers, and the operation of the root zone maintainer function for the core of the internet s DNS. Our product suite also includes Security Services, consisting of DDoS Protection Services, and Managed DNS Services. Revenues from Security Services are not significant in relation to our consolidated revenues.  On April 1, 2017, we completed the sale of our iDefense business. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we had approximately 146.4 million .  com   and .  net   registrations in the domain name base. The number of domain names registered is largely driven by continued growth in online advertising, e-commerce, and the number of internet users, which is partially driven by greater availability of internet access, as well as marketing activities carried out by us and third-party registrars. Growth in the number of domain name registrations under our management may be hindered by certain factors, including overall economic conditions, competition from ccTLDs, the introduction of new gTLDs, and ongoing changes in the internet practices and behaviors of consumers and businesses. Factors such as the evolving practices and preferences of internet users, and how they navigate the internet, as well as the motivation of domain name registrants and how they will manage their investment in domain names, can negatively impact our business and the demand for new domain name registrations and renewals. 
  2017   Business Highlights and Trends 
                
    The final   .com   and   .net   renewal rate for the third quarter of   2017   was 74.4% compared with 73.0% for the same quarter in   2016  .  Renewal rates are not fully measurable until 45 days after the end of the quarter. 
                 
    Through February 8, 2018, we repurchased an additional 0.6 million shares for $63.2 million under our share repurchase program. Effective February 8, 2018, our Board authorized the repurchase of approximately $585.8 million of our common stock, in addition to the $414.2 million of our common stock remaining available for repurchase under the previous share repurchase program, for a total repurchase authorization of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock. 
                 
    On April 1, 2017, we completed the sale of our iDefense business, which resulted in a pre-tax gain of approximately $10.4 million. 
     
   28 

On June 28, 2017, we entered into a renewal of the   .net   Registry Agreement with ICANN, pursuant to which we will remain the sole registry operator of the   .net   TLD through June 30, 2023. 
                
    On July 5, 2017, we issued $550.0 million of 4.75% Senior Notes due July 15, 2027. The proceeds are being used for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, the repurchase of shares under our share repurchase program. 
      Critical Accounting Policies and Significant Management Estimates  
  The discussion and analysis of our financial condition and results of operations are based upon our Consolidated Financial Statements, which have been prepared in accordance with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. The preparation of these financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. On an ongoing basis, management evaluates those estimates. Management bases its estimates on historical experience and on various assumptions that are believed to be reasonable under the circumstances, the results of which form the basis for making judgments about the carrying values of assets and liabilities that are not readily available from other sources. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  
    
   An accounting estimate is considered critical if the nature of the estimates or assumptions is material due to the levels of subjectivity and judgment involved, and the impact of changes in the estimates and assumptions would have a material effect on the consolidated financial statements. We believe the following critical accounting estimates and policies have the most significant impact on our consolidated financial statements:  
    
  Revenue recognition  
  We generate revenues by providing services over a period of time. Fees for these services are deferred and recognized as performance occurs. The majority of our revenue transactions contain standard business terms and conditions. However, at times, we enter into non-standard arrangements including multiple-element arrangements. As a result, we must evaluate (1) whether an arrangement exists; (2) how the arrangement consideration should be allocated among the deliverables; (3) when to recognize revenue on the deliverables; and (4) whether all elements of the arrangement have been delivered. Our revenue recognition policy also requires an assessment as to whether collection is reasonably assured, which requires us to evaluate the creditworthiness of our customers.  As discussed in Note 1,  Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies  of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K, the adoption of the new revenue guidance in Accounting Standards Codification 606   Revenue from Contracts with Customers  , is not expected to have a material impact on our revenue recognition when it becomes effective in 2018. 
     Income taxes  
  Accounting for income taxes requires significant judgments in the development of estimates used in income tax calculations. Such judgments include, but are not limited to, the likelihood we would realize the benefits of carryforwards from net operating losses ( NOLs ), capital losses, domestic and/or foreign tax credits, the adequacy of valuation allowances, and the rates used to measure transactions with foreign subsidiaries. To the extent recovery of deferred tax assets is not likely, we record a valuation allowance to reduce our deferred tax assets to the amount that is more likely than not to be realized.  
  Our operations involve dealing with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in multiple jurisdictions. The final taxes payable are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from U.S. federal, state, and international tax audits. We only recognize or continue to only recognize tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. We adjust these amounts in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from our current estimate of the tax liabilities.  
  Due to the enactment of the Tax Act, we no longer intend to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of our foreign subsidiaries.  For further discussion of this change, see Note 10,  Income taxes  of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. 
  Earnings per Share 
  We use the treasury stock method to calculate the impact of our Subordinated Convertible Debentures on diluted earnings per share. Under this method, only a positive conversion spread related to the Subordinated Convertible Debentures is included in the diluted earnings per share calculations. This is based on our intent and ability to settle the principal amount of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures in cash. A change in our intent and ability would require us to use the if-converted method, which could have a material impact on our diluted earnings per share.  

29 

Results of Operations 
  The following table presents information regarding our results of operations as a percentage of revenues: 

Revenues 
  Revenues related to our Registry Services are primarily derived from registrations for domain names in the   .com   and   .net   domain name registries. We also derive revenues from operating domain name registries for several other TLDs and from providing back-end registry services to a number of TLD registry operators, all of which are not significant in relation to our consolidated revenues. For domain names registered with the   .com   and   .net   registries we receive a fee from registrars per annual registration that is fixed pursuant to our agreements with ICANN. Individual customers, called registrants, contract directly with registrars or their resellers, and the registrars in turn register the domain names with Verisign. Changes in revenues are driven largely by changes in the number of new domain name registrations and the renewal rate for existing registrations as well as the impact of new and prior price increases, to the extent permitted by ICANN and the DOC. New registrations and the renewal rate for existing registrations are impacted by continued growth in online advertising, e-commerce, and the number of internet users, as well as marketing activities carried out by us and our registrar customers. We increased the annual fee for a   .net   domain name registration from $6.79 to $7.46 on February 1, 2016, from $7.46 to $8.20 on February 1, 2017, and from $8.20 to $9.02 on February 1, 2018.  We have the contractual right to increase the fees for   .net   domain name registrations by up to 10% each year during the term of our agreement with ICANN, through June 30, 2023. The annual fee for a   .com   domain name registration is $7.85 for the duration of the current   .com   Registry Agreement through November 30, 2024, except that prices may be raised by up to 7% each year due to the imposition of any new Consensus Policy or documented extraordinary expense resulting from an attack or threat of attack on the Security and Stability (each as defined in the .  com   Registry Agreement) of the DNS, subject to approval of the DOC. We offer promotional marketing programs for our registrars based upon market conditions and the business environment in which the registrars operate. All fees paid to us for .  com   and .  net   registrations are in U.S. dollars. Revenues from Security Services are not significant in relation to our total consolidated revenues. 
    
  A comparison of revenues is presented below:   

30 

The following table compares the domain name base for .  com   and   .net   managed by our Registry Services business:    

2017 compared to 2016:    Revenues increased by   $22.9 million  , primarily due to a 4% increase in the domain name base for .  com   and increases in the   .net   domain name registration fees in February 2016 and 2017, partially offset by a 5% decline in the domain name base for .  net  .  Additionally, 2016 revenue was elevated due to an increased volume of new domain name registrations primarily from our registrars in China during the second half of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016.  The volume of these new registrations was inconsistent and episodic compared to prior periods, and by the end of the first quarter of 2016, reverted back to a more normalized registration pace.  A significant portion of these registrations did not renew upon expiration.    
  2016 compared to 2015:    Revenues increased by   $82.8 million  , primarily due to an increase in the average number of domain names ending in .  com   and .  net   and increases in the   .net   domain name registration fees in February 2015 and 2016.  The increase in the average number of domain names ending in .  com   and   .net   was significantly impacted by the elevated volume of registrations from our registrars in China discussed above. 
  Growth in the domain name base has been primarily driven by continued internet growth and marketing activities carried out by us and our registrars. Competitive pressure from ccTLDs, the introduction of new gTLDs, ongoing changes in internet practices and behaviors of consumers and business, as well as the motivation of existing domain name registrants and how they will manage their investment in domain names, and historical global economic uncertainty, have limited the rate of growth of the domain name base in recent years and may continue to do so in 2018 and beyond.  We expect revenues will continue to grow in 2018, as a result of the increased volume of domain registrations in 2017, continued growth in the domain name base in 2018, and increases in the   .net   domain name registration fees in February 2017 and 2018. 
  Geographic revenues 
  We generate revenue in the U.S.; Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA  China; and certain other countries, including Canada, Australia and Japan.  
     The following table presents a comparison of the Company s geographic revenues:  

Revenues for our Registry Services business are attributed to the country of domicile and the respective regions in which our registrars are located, however, this may differ from the regions where the registrars operate or where registrants are located. Revenue growth for each region may be impacted by registrars reincorporating, relocating, or from acquisitions or changes in affiliations of resellers. Revenue growth for each region may also be impacted by registrars domiciled in one region, registering domain names in another region. These factors impacted revenues in China and the Other region during 2017.  Additionally, while revenues grew in the U.S., EMEA and Other regions during 2017, revenues from China decreased.  Revenues from China in 2016 benefited from the increased volume of registrations in the second half of 2015 and the first quarter of 2016, as discussed earlier.  However, a significant portion of those registrations did not renew, resulting in the decline in revenues from China in 2017. 

31 

Cost of revenues 
    
  Cost of revenues consist primarily of salaries and employee benefits expenses for our personnel who manage the operational systems, depreciation expenses, operational costs associated with the delivery of our services, fees paid to ICANN, customer support and training, consulting and development services, costs of facilities and computer equipment used in these activities, telecommunications expense and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. 
  A comparison of cost of revenues is presented below: 

2017 compared to 2016:   Cost of revenues decreased by   $4.9 million  , primarily due to decreases in depreciation expenses and salary and employee benefits expenses, partially offset by an increase in telecommunications expenses. Depreciation expenses decreased by $5.3 million as a result of lower average hardware purchases over the last several years. Salary and employee benefits expenses decreased by $3.1 million, primarily due to a reduction in average headcount related to the sale of the iDefense business in April 2017, partially offset by increases in salary and employee benefits expenses for the remaining employee base. Telecommunications expenses increased by $3.2 million as a result of an increase in network costs supporting our operations. 
    
  2016 compared to 2015:   Cost of revenues increased by   $5.5 million  , primarily due to increases in salary and employee benefits expenses, and allocated overhead expenses, partially offset by a decrease in telecommunications expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses increased by $6.0 million, primarily due to an increase in average headcount and an increase in bonus expenses.  Allocated overhead expenses increased by $1.5 million as a result of an increase in average headcount compared to other cost types. Telecommunications expenses decreased by $1.9 million, primarily due to savings on renewals of colocation agreements. 
  We expect cost of revenues as a percentage of revenues to decrease slightly in 2018 as compared to 2017 as revenue is expected to grow faster than direct costs. 
  Sales and marketing 
    
  Sales and marketing expenses consist primarily of salaries, sales commissions, sales operations and other personnel-related expenses, travel and related expenses, trade shows, costs of lead generation, costs of computer and communications equipment and support services, facilities costs, consulting fees, costs of marketing programs, such as online, television, radio, print and direct mail advertising costs, and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. 
  A comparison of sales and marketing expenses is presented below: 

2017 compared to 2016:   Sales and marketing expenses increased by   $1.7 million  , primarily due to an increase in advertising and marketing expenses, partially offset by a decrease in salary and employee benefits expenses.  Advertising and marketing expenses increased by $7.0 million, primarily due to increases in costs related to certain marketing campaigns supporting our Registry Services business.  Salary and employee benefits expenses decreased by $4.2 million due to a reduction in average headcount.  
    
  2016 compared to 2015:   Sales and marketing expenses decreased by   $9.9 million  , primarily due to decreases in advertising and consulting expenses, salary and employee benefits expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, and allocated overhead expenses.  Advertising and consulting expenses decreased by $3.7 million, primarily due to a decrease in marketing activities and advertising agency costs.  Salary and employee benefits expenses, including stock-based compensation expenses, decreased by $2.9 million due to a reduction in average headcount. Allocated overhead expenses decreased by $1.4 million due to the decrease in average headcount relative to other cost types. 
  
   32 

We expect sales and marketing expenses as a percentage of revenues to remain consistent in 2018 as compared to 2017. 
  Research and development 
    
  Research and development expenses consist primarily of costs related to research and development personnel, including salaries and other personnel-related expenses, consulting fees, facilities costs, computer and communications equipment, support services used in our service and technology development, and allocations of indirect costs such as corporate overhead. 
  A comparison of research and development expenses is presented below: 

2017 compared to 2016:   Research and development expenses decreased by   $6.8 million  , primarily due to a decrease in salary and employee benefits expenses as a result of a reduction in average headcount.  
    
  2016 compared to 2015:   Research and development expenses decreased by   $4.6 million  , primarily due to decreases in salary and employee benefits expenses, and allocated overhead costs, partially offset by a decrease in capitalized labor.  Salary and employee benefits expenses, allocated overhead expenses, and capitalized labor decreased by $2.4 million, $1.7 million, and $1.5 million, respectively, due to a reduction in average headcount. 
    
  We expect research and development expenses as a percentage of revenues to remain consistent in 2018 as compared to 2017. 
  General and administrative 
    
  General and administrative expenses consist primarily of salaries and other personnel-related expenses for our executive, administrative, legal, finance, information technology and human resources personnel, costs of facilities, computer and communications equipment, management information systems, support services, professional services fees, certain tax and license fees, and bad debt expense, offset by allocations of indirect costs such as facilities and shared services expenses to other cost types. 
  A comparison of general and administrative expenses is presented below:   

2017 compared to 2016:   General and administrative expenses increased by   $11.8 million  , primarily due to increases in salary and employee benefits expenses, including stock-based compensation expenses, legal expenses, and a decrease in overhead expenses allocated to other cost types, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expenses. Salary and employee benefits expenses, including stock-based compensation expenses, increased by $4.9 million due to an increase in average headcount and higher projected achievement levels on certain performance-based restricted stock units ( RSU ) grants.  Legal expenses increased by $4.5 million primarily due to higher external legal fees.  Overhead expenses allocated to other cost types decreased by $2.5 million due to an increase in the average headcount relative other cost types. Depreciation expenses decreased by $2.8 million as a result of a decrease in capital expenditures in recent years. 
  
   33 

2016 compared to 2015:   General and administrative expenses increased by   $11.3 million  , primarily due to increases in salary and employee benefits expenses, stock-based compensation expenses, legal expenses, and a decrease in overhead expenses allocated to other cost types, partially offset by a decrease in depreciation expenses and certain non-income related taxes. Salary and employee benefits expenses increased by $8.0 million due to increases in bonus expenses and average headcount.  Stock based compensation expenses increased by $4.5 million due to increases in the total value of RSUs granted in 2015 and 2016 and higher projected achievement levels on certain performance-based RSU grants. Legal expenses increased by $2.6 million primarily due to an increase in services performed by external legal counsel.  Overhead expenses allocated to other cost types decreased by $1.6 million due to lower average headcount for other cost types. Depreciation expenses decreased by $2.6 million as a result of a decrease in capital expenditures in recent years. We incurred $2.1 million of certain non-income taxes in 2015, which did not recur in 2016. 
  We expect general and administrative expenses as a percentage of revenues to remain consistent in 2018 as compared to 2017. 
  Interest expense 
  See Note 4,  Debt and interest expense  of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. We expect interest expense to decrease in 2018 as compared to 2017 due to a decrease in interest expense related to the Subordinated Convertible Debentures as we notified holders that the Subordinated Convertible Debentures will be redeemed on May 1, 2018, partially offset by an increase related to the senior notes issued in July 2017.  
  Non-operating income (loss), net 
  See Note 9,  Non-operating income (loss), net  of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. 
  Income tax expense    

  Our effective tax rate for each year presented was lower than the statutory federal rate of 35% primarily due to benefits from foreign income taxed at lower rates, partially offset by state income taxes. Our effective tax rate for 2017 was also  impacted by the changes arising out of the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017.  
  Due to the change in tax law, we will owe U.S. federal taxes on our accumulated and future foreign earnings and as a result we no longer intend to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings.  Our 2017 income tax expense includes a provisional $162.4 million of expense related to the U.S. tax on accumulated foreign earnings and a provisional $33.6 million deferred tax expense for foreign withholding tax on unremitted foreign earnings, both net of related, previously unrecognized foreign tax credits.  These tax expenses are offset by a tax benefit of $186.8 million related to the remeasurement of our net deferred tax liabilities at the new U.S. federal corporate tax rate of 21% which became effective on January 1, 2018.  We expect our effective tax rate to decrease slightly in 2018 as a result of the impact of the Tax Act. For further discussion of the Tax Act, see Note 10,  Income taxes  of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we had deferred tax assets arising from deductible temporary differences, tax losses, and tax credits of   $202.6 million  , net of valuation allowances, but before the offset of certain deferred tax liabilities. With the exception of deferred tax assets related to capital loss and certain state NOL carryforwards, we believe it is more likely than not that the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities, together with future taxable income, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. Our deferred tax assets related to NOL carryforwards increased in 2017 due to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-09,   Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,   and the resulting recognition of $  35.4 million   of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation.  Total deferred tax assets decreased in 2017 due to the usage of tax credit carryforwards to offset 2017 taxable income and the remeasurement of deferred tax assets due to the reduction in the U.S. corporate tax rate. 
  We qualify for a tax holiday in Switzerland which does not expire, unless the required non-Swiss income and expense thresholds are no longer met, or there is a law change which eliminates the holiday.  The tax holiday provides reduced rates of taxation on certain types of income and also requires certain thresholds of foreign source income. The tax holiday increased the Company s earnings per share by   $0.10  , $  0.16  , and $  0.14   in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively. 
  
   34 

Liquidity and Capital Resources 

As of   December 31, 2017  , our principal source of liquidity was   $465.9 million   of cash and cash equivalents and   $1.9 billion   of marketable securities. The marketable securities consist primarily of debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury meeting the criteria of our investment policy, which is focused on the preservation of our capital through investment in investment grade securities. The cash equivalents consist mainly of amounts invested in money market funds and U.S. Treasury bills purchased with original maturities of less than 90 days.  As of   December 31, 2017  , all of our debt securities have contractual maturities of less than one year. Our cash and cash equivalents are readily accessible. For additional information on our investment portfolio, see Note 2,  Fair Value of Financial Instruments,  of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , the amount of cash and cash equivalents and marketable securities held by foreign subsidiaries was $1.7 billion. As a result of the recent changes in U.S. tax laws, we no longer intend to indefinitely reinvest these funds outside of the U.S. and accordingly, we recognized a provisional income tax expense of $162.4 million related to the U.S. tax on our accumulated foreign earnings and a provisional $33.6 million related to withholding taxes on unremitted foreign earnings.  By early second quarter of 2018, we intend to repatriate approximately $1.1 billion of cash held by foreign subsidiaries, net of withholding taxes, based on current exchange rates.   
  In   2017  , we repurchased   6.3 million   shares of our common stock at an average stock price of   $94.59   for an aggregate cost of $592.7 million under our share repurchase program.  In   2016  , we repurchased 7.8 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $81.73 for an aggregate cost of $636.5 million.  In   2015  , we repurchased 9.3 million shares of our common stock at an average stock price of $66.59 for an aggregate cost of $621.9 million. On February 8, 2018, our Board authorized the repurchase of approximately $585.8 million of our common stock, in addition to the $414.2 million of our common stock remaining available for repurchase under the previous share repurchase program, for a total repurchase authorization of up to $1.0 billion of our common stock. 
  On July 5, 2017, we issued $550.0 million of 4.75% senior unsecured notes due July 15, 2027. The proceeds are being used for general corporate purposes, including, but not limited to, the repurchase of shares under our share repurchase program. As of December 31, 2017, we also had $500.0 million principal amount outstanding of the 5.25% senior unsecured notes due 2025 and $750.0 million principal amount outstanding of the 4.625% senior unsecured notes due 2023. 
  As of December 31, 2017, we have a $200.0 million unsecured revolving credit facility with no borrowings outstanding. This facility will expire in 2020.  
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we had $1.25 billion principal amount outstanding of our Subordinated Convertible Debentures. The price of our common stock exceeded the conversion price threshold trigger during the fourth quarter of 2017. Accordingly, the Subordinated Convertible Debentures are convertible at the option of each holder through March 31, 2018.  
    
  We have historically derived significant tax savings from the Subordinated Convertible Debentures as the interest deduction for tax purposes has exceeded the cash interest paid due to the structure of the debentures and the related tax laws.  During 2017 and 2016, the interest deduction, for income tax purposes, related to our Subordinated Convertible Debentures, was $191.5 million and $183.7 million, respectively, compared to cash interest paid, including contingent interest, of $55.9 million and $54.0 million in 2017 and 2016, respectively.  The size of the interest deduction for tax purposes resulted in a tax benefit that exceeded the cash interest paid for the debentures in each of these years.  However, as a result of the enactment of the Tax Act, which includes limits on interest deductibility and a lower U.S. federal income tax rate, these tax savings are expected to diminish in the future.  Due to the diminished tax savings and several other factors, on February 15, 2018 we called for the redemption of all the outstanding Subordinated Convertible Debentures, with a redemption date of May 1, 2018.  If holders elect to convert their debentures, we will settle the $1.25 billion principal amount in cash and settle the remaining value through the issuance of shares of Verisign s common stock.  Based on the if-converted value of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures as of December 31, 2017, the conversion spread would have required us to issue up to 25.4 million shares of common stock. 

35 

We believe existing cash, cash equivalents and marketable securities, and funds generated from operations, together with our ability to arrange for additional financing should be sufficient to meet our working capital, capital expenditure requirements, and to service our debt for the next 12 months. We regularly assess our cash management approach and activities in view of our current and potential future needs. 
  In summary, our cash flows for   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015   were as follows:   

Net cash provided by operating activities  
    
  Our largest source of operating cash flows is cash collections from our customers. Our primary uses of cash from operating activities are for personnel related expenditures, and other general operating expenses, as well as payments related to taxes, interest and facilities.  
    
  2017   compared to   2016  :   Cash provided by operating activities increased primarily due to increases in cash received from customers and an increase in interest income, partially offset by increases in cash paid to suppliers and employees, cash paid for income taxes, and cash paid for interest on our debt obligations. Cash received from customers increased primarily due to higher   .com   domain name registrations and renewals and the increase in   .net   domain name registration fees in February 2017.  Cash received from interest income increased due to increases in interest rates and our investments in debt securities.  Cash paid to suppliers and employees increased primarily due to timing of certain vendor payments. Cash paid for income taxes increased due to higher non-U.S. income tax payments. Cash paid for interest increased due to higher contingent interest related to the Subordinated Convertible Debentures.  
    
  2016 compared to 2015:   Cash provided by operating activities increased primarily due to an increase in cash received from customers and a decrease in cash paid for income taxes, partially offset by an increase in cash paid for interest. Cash received from customers increased primarily due to an increase in the number of domain name registration renewals and the increase in   .net   domain name registration fees in February 2016. Cash paid for income taxes decreased primarily due to income tax payments in 2015 related to the reorganization of certain international operations.  Cash paid for interest increased due to the interest paid on the $500.0 million senior notes issued on March 2015, and higher contingent interest related to the Subordinated Convertible Debentures.  
    
  Net cash used in investing activities  
    
  The changes in cash flows from investing activities primarily relate to purchases, maturities and sales of marketable securities, and purchases of property and equipment and rights to intangible assets. 
    
  2017   compared to   2016  :    The increase in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to an increase in purchases of marketable securities, net of sales and maturities, and an increase in purchases of property and equipment, partially offset by the payments made in 2016 for the future assignment of the rights to the   .web   gTLD, and an increase in other investing activities including the proceeds received from the sale of our iDefense business. 
    
  2016 compared to 2015:    The decrease in cash used in investing activities was primarily due to an increase in sales and maturities of marketable securities, net of purchases, and a decrease in purchases of property and equipment and other investing activities, partially offset by the payments made for the future assignment of the rights to the   .web   gTLD. 
    
  Net cash used in financing activities  
    
  The changes in cash flows from financing activities primarily relate to share repurchases, proceeds from and repayment of borrowings, and our employee stock purchase plan ( ESPP ). 
  
   36 

2017   compared to   2016  :   The decrease in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to the proceeds received from the issuance of the 4.75% senior notes due 2027 in the third quarter of 2017, net of issuance costs, and a decrease in share repurchases. 
    
  2016 compared to 2015:   The increase in net cash used in financing activities was primarily due to an increase in share repurchases, and proceeds from the issuance of senior notes in March 2015. 
    
  Impact of Inflation  
    
  We do not believe that inflation has had a significant impact on our operations in any of the periods presented.  
    
  Income taxes  
  As a result of the enactment of the Tax Act in December 2017, we will owe U.S. income tax on our foreign earnings and as a result, we no longer intend to indefinitely reinvest our foreign earnings.  We expect the amount of cash paid for income taxes in 2018 to increase due to the foreign withholding taxes that will be paid related to funds repatriated to the U.S. and other impacts of the Tax Act. 
  Property and Equipment Expenditures  
    
  Our planned property and equipment expenditures for 2018 are anticipated to be between $45.0 million and $55.0 million and will primarily be focused on infrastructure upgrades and enhancements to our product portfolio. 
    
  Contractual Obligations  
    
  See Note 11,  Commitments and Contingencies,    Purchase Obligations and Contractual Agreements  , of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K.     
    
     Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  
    
  It is not our business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. As of   December 31, 2017  , we did not have any significant off-balance sheet arrangements. See Note 11,  Commitments and Contingencies,    Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  , of our Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements in Item 15 of this Form 10-K for further information regarding off-balance sheet arrangements.  
    
  Dilution from RSUs  
  Grants of stock-based awards are key components of the compensation packages we provide to attract and retain certain of our talented employees and align their interests with the interests of existing stockholders. We recognize that these stock-based awards dilute existing stockholders and have sought to control the number granted while providing competitive compensation packages. As of   December 31, 2017  , there are a total of 1.6 million unvested RSUs which represent potential dilution of 1.6%. This maximum potential dilution will only result if all outstanding RSUs vest and are settled. In recent years, our stock repurchase program has more than offset the dilutive effect of RSU grants to employees; however, we may reduce the level of our stock repurchases in the future as we may use our available cash for other purposes.  
  
   37 

ITEM 7A. 
    QUANTITATIVE AND QUALITATIVE DISCLOSURES ABOUT MARKET RISK  
       
  We are exposed to financial market risks, including changes in interest rates, foreign exchange rates and market risks. We have not entered into any market risk sensitive instruments for trading purposes.  
    
  Interest rate sensitivity  
    
  The fixed income securities in our investment portfolio are subject to interest rate risk. As of   December 31, 2017  , we had   $2.2 billion   of fixed income securities, which consisted of U.S. Treasury bills with maturities of less than one year. A hypothetical change in interest rates by 100 basis points would not have a significant impact on the fair value of our investments. 
    
  Foreign exchange risk management  
    
  We conduct business in several countries and transact in multiple foreign currencies. The functional currency for all of our international subsidiaries is the U.S. Dollar.  Our foreign currency risk management program is designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with monetary assets and liabilities of our operations that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses to income resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. We may choose not to hedge certain foreign exchange exposures due to immateriality, prohibitive economic cost of hedging particular exposures, and limited availability of appropriate hedging instruments. We do not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor do we hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. The program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. These foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. We attempt to limit our exposure to credit risk by executing foreign exchange contracts with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings.  
    
  As of   December 31, 2017  , we held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling   $29.7 million   to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain foreign currencies. Gains or losses on the foreign currency forward contracts would be largely offset by the remeasurement of our foreign currency denominated assets and liabilities, resulting in an insignificant net impact to income.  
    
  A hypothetical uniform 10% strengthening or weakening in the value of the U.S. dollar relative to the foreign currencies in which our revenues and expenses are denominated would not result in a significant impact to our financial statements.  
       
  Market risk management  
    
  The fair market values of our Subordinated Convertible Debentures and the senior notes are subject to interest rate risk. Generally, the fair market value of fixed interest rate debt will increase as interest rates fall and decrease as interest rates rise. The Subordinated Convertible Debentures are subject to market risk due to the convertible feature of the debentures.  The fair market value will increase as the market price of our common stock increases, and decrease as the market price of our common stock falls. As of   December 31, 2017  , the fair value of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures was approximately $4.2 billion and the fair values of the senior notes issued in 2013, the senior notes issued in 2015, and the senior notes issued in 2017 were   $772.9 million  ,   $544.4 million  , and   $563.7 million  , respectively, based on available market information from public data sources. 

38 

ITEM 8.        FINANCIAL STATEMENTS AND SUPPLEMENTARY DATA  
    
  Financial Statements  
    
  Verisign s financial statements required by this Item are set forth as a separate section of this Form 10-K. See Item 15 for a listing of financial statements provided in the section titled  Financial Statements.   
    
  Supplementary Data (Unaudited)  
    
  The following tables set forth unaudited supplementary quarterly financial data for the two year period ended   December 31, 2017  . In management s opinion, the unaudited data has been prepared on the same basis as the audited information and includes all adjustments (consisting only of normal recurring adjustments) necessary for a fair presentation of the data for the periods presented.  

(1) 
    Earnings per share for the year is computed independently and may not equal the sum of the quarterly earnings per share. 
              (2) 
    Results for the quarter ended June 30, 2017 include a $10.6 million pre-tax gain recognized on the sale of the iDefense business. 

(1) 
    Earnings per share for the year is computed independently and may not equal the sum of the quarterly earnings per share. 
     Our quarterly revenues and operating results are difficult to forecast. Therefore, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results will not necessarily be meaningful, and should not be relied upon as an indication of future performance. Also, operating results may fall below our expectations and the expectations of securities analysts or investors in one or more future quarters. If this were to occur, the market price of our common stock would likely decline.  
  
   39 

ITEM 9. 
    CHANGES IN AND DISAGREEMENTS WITH ACCOUNTANTS ON ACCOUNTING AND FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE  
       
  Not applicable.  

ITEM 9A. 
    CONTROLS AND PROCEDURES  
       
  a. Evaluation of Disclosure Controls and Procedures  
    
  Based on our management s evaluation, with the participation of our Chief Executive Officer (our principal executive officer) and our Chief Financial Officer (our principal financial officer), as of   December 31, 2017  , our principal executive officer and principal financial officer have concluded that our disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, as amended, (the  Exchange Act )) are effective to ensure that information required to be disclosed by us in reports that we file or submit under the Exchange Act is recorded, processed, summarized and reported within the time periods specified in SEC rules and forms and is accumulated and communicated to our management, including our principal executive officer and principal financial officer, as appropriate to allow timely decisions regarding required disclosure.  
    
  b. Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
    
  Our management is responsible for establishing and maintaining adequate internal control over financial reporting as defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act. Under the supervision and with the participation of our management, including our Chief Executive Officer and Chief Financial Officer, we conducted an evaluation of the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017   using the criteria established in   Internal Control-Integrated Framework   (2013 Framework) issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission ( COSO ).  
    
  Based on our evaluation under the COSO framework, management has concluded that our internal control over financial reporting is effective to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles.  
    
  KPMG LLP, an independent registered public accounting firm, has issued a report concerning the effectiveness of our internal control over financial reporting as of   December 31, 2017  . See  Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  in Item 15 of this Form 10-K.  
    
  c. Changes in Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
    
  There was no change in our internal control over financial reporting (as such term is defined in Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f) under the Exchange Act) during the three months ended   December 31, 2017   that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the Company s internal control over financial reporting.  
    
  d. Inherent Limitations of Disclosure Controls and Internal Control over Financial Reporting  
    
  Because of their inherent limitations, our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting may not prevent material errors or fraud. A control system, no matter how well conceived and operated, can provide only reasonable, not absolute, assurance that the objectives of the control system are met. The effectiveness of our disclosure controls and procedures and our internal control over financial reporting is subject to risks, including that the controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions or that the degree of compliance with our policies or procedures may deteriorate.  

ITEM 9B.        OTHER INFORMATION  
    
  On February 14, 2018, our Board of Directors amended our Bylaws to decrease the aggregate ownership percentage of stockholders needed to call a special meeting from 35% to 25% as described in Article I, Section 2 of the Bylaw. The amended Bylaws, which were effective upon approval by the Board of Directors, contain certain notice and other requirements relevant to the ability of stockholders to call a special meeting. 
  This description of the amendment to the Bylaws is qualified in its entirety by reference to the text of the Bylaws, filed as Exhibit 3.02 to this Form 10-K.  
  
   40 

PART III 

ITEM 10. 
    DIRECTORS, EXECUTIVE OFFICERS AND CORPORATE GOVERNANCE  
       
  The information required by this item relating to our directors and nominees, regarding compliance with Section 16(a) of the Exchange Act, and regarding our Audit Committee, Corporate Governance and Nominating Committee and Compensation Committee will be included under the captions  Proposal No. 1: Election of Directors,   Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management-Section 16(a) Beneficial Ownership Reporting Compliance,  and  Corporate Governance  in our Proxy Statement related to the 2018 Annual Meeting of Stockholders and is incorporated herein by reference ( 2018 Proxy Statement ). 
    
  Pursuant to General Instruction G(3) of Form 10-K, the information required by this item relating to our executive officers is included under the caption  Executive Officers of the Registrant  in Part I of this Annual Report on Form 10-K. 
    
  We have adopted a  Verisign Code of Conduct , which is posted on our website under  Ethics and Business Conduct  at   https://investor.verisign.com/corporate-governance.cfm  .  The code of conduct applies to all directors, officers and employees, including the principal executive officer, principal financial officer and other senior accounting officers. We have also adopted the  Corporate Governance Principles for the Board of Directors,  which provide guidance to our directors on corporate practices that serve the best interests of the Company and its shareholders. 
    
  We intend to satisfy any disclosure requirement under Item 5.05 of Form 8-K regarding an amendment to, or waiver from, a provision of the  Verisign Code of Conduct,  to the extent applicable to the principal executive officer, principal financial officer, or other senior accounting officers, by posting such information on our website, on the web page found by clicking through to  Ethics and Business Conduct  as specified above. 

ITEM 11. 
    EXECUTIVE COMPENSATION  
       
  Information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2018 Proxy Statement from the discussions under the captions  Compensation of Directors,   Non-Employee Director Retainer Fees and Equity Compensation Information  and  Non-Employee Director Compensation Table for Fiscal 2017,  and  Executive Compensation.  

ITEM 12. 
    SECURITY OWNERSHIP OF CERTAIN BENEFICIAL OWNERS AND MANAGEMENT AND RELATED STOCKHOLDER MATTERS    
       
  Information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference from the discussions under the captions  Security Ownership of Certain Beneficial Owners and Management  and  Equity Compensation Plan Information  in our 2018 Proxy Statement.  

ITEM 13. 
    CERTAIN RELATIONSHIPS AND RELATED TRANSACTIONS, AND DIRECTOR INDEPENDENCE  
       
  Information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2018 Proxy Statement from the discussions under the captions  Policies and Procedures with Respect to Transactions with Related Persons,   Certain Relationships and Related Transactions  and  Independence of Directors.  

ITEM 14. 
    PRINCIPAL ACCOUNTANT FEES AND SERVICES  
       
  Information required by this item is incorporated herein by reference to our 2018 Proxy Statement from the discussions under the captions  Principal Accountant Fees and Services  and  Policy on Audit Committee Pre-Approval of Audit and Permissible Non-Audit Services of Independent Auditors.  

41 

Table of Contents  

PART IV 

ITEM 15. 
    EXHIBITS, FINANCIAL STATEMENT SCHEDULES  
       
  (a) Documents filed as part of this report  
    
  1. Financial statements  

Reports of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm  

Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements  
       
  2. Financial statement schedules  

Financial statement schedules are omitted because the information called for is not material or is shown either in the consolidated financial statements or the notes thereto. 
       
  3. Exhibits 
    
  (a) Index to Exhibits  
    
  Pursuant to the rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  SEC ), the Company has filed certain agreements as exhibits to this Form 10-K. These agreements may contain representations and warranties by the parties thereto. These representations and warranties have been made solely for the benefit of the other party or parties to such agreements and (1) may be intended not as statements of fact, but rather as a way of allocating the risk to one of the parties to such agreements if those statements prove to be inaccurate, (2) may have been qualified by disclosures that were made to such other party or parties and that either have been reflected in the Company s filings or are not required to be disclosed in those filings, (3) may apply materiality standards different from what may be viewed as material to investors and (4) were made only as of the date of such agreements or such other date(s) as may be specified in such agreements and are subject to more recent developments. Accordingly, these representations and warranties may not describe the Company s actual state of affairs at the date hereof or at any other time.  

42 

43 

* 
    As contemplated by SEC Release No. 33-8212, these exhibits are furnished with this Annual Report on Form 10-K and are not deemed filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission and are not incorporated by reference in any filing of VeriSign, Inc. under the Securities Act of 1933 or the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, whether made before or after the date hereof and irrespective of any general incorporation language in such filings. 
   
                + 
    Indicates a management contract or compensatory plan or arrangement. 

None. 
  
   44 

FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  As required under Item 8 Financial Statements and Supplementary Data, the consolidated financial statements of Verisign, Inc. are provided in this separate section. The consolidated financial statements included in this section are as follows: 

45 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  To the stockholders and board of directors 
  VeriSign, Inc.: 
  Opinion on the Consolidated     Financial Statements 
  We have audited the accompanying consolidated balance sheets of VeriSign, Inc. and subsidiaries (the  Company ) as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, stockholders  deficit, and cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively, the  consolidated financial statements ). In our opinion, the consolidated financial statements present fairly, in all material respects, the financial position of the Company as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the results of their operations and their cash flows for each of the years in the three year period ended December 31, 2017, in conformity with U.S. generally accepted accounting principles. 
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ( PCAOB ), the Company s internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission, and our report dated February 16, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion on the effectiveness of the Company s internal control over financial reporting. 
  Basis for Opinion 
  These consolidated financial statements are the responsibility of the Company s management. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on these consolidated financial statements based on our audits. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
  We conducted our audits in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether the consolidated financial statements are free of material misstatement, whether due to error or fraud. Our audits included performing procedures to assess the risks of material misstatement of the consolidated financial statements, whether due to error or fraud, and performing procedures that respond to those risks. Such procedures included examining, on a test basis, evidence regarding the amounts and disclosures in the consolidated financial statements. Our audits also included evaluating the accounting principles used and significant estimates made by management, as well as evaluating the overall presentation of the consolidated financial statements. We believe that our audits provide a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
    
  /s/ KPMG LLP 
    
  We have served as the Company s auditor since 1995. 
  McLean, Virginia 
  February 16, 2018 

46 

Report of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 
  To the stockholders and board of directors 
  VeriSign, Inc.: 
  Opinion on Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
  We have audited VeriSign, Inc. s and subsidiaries  (the  Company ) internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission. In our opinion, the Company maintained, in all material respects, effective internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, based on criteria established in   Internal Control - Integrated Framework (2013)   issued by the Committee of Sponsoring Organizations of the Treadway Commission.   
  We also have audited, in accordance with the standards of the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board (United States) ( PCAOB ), the consolidated balance sheets of the Company as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, stockholders  deficit, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes  (collectively, the consolidated financial statements), and our report dated February 16, 2018 expressed an unqualified opinion on those consolidated financial statements. 
  Basis for Opinion  
  The Company s management is responsible for maintaining effective internal control over financial reporting and for its assessment of the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting, included in the accompanying Management s Report on Internal Control over Financial Reporting. Our responsibility is to express an opinion on the Company s internal control over financial reporting based on our audit. We are a public accounting firm registered with the PCAOB and are required to be independent with respect to the Company in accordance with the U.S. federal securities laws and the applicable rules and regulations of the Securities and Exchange Commission and the PCAOB. 
  We conducted our audit in accordance with the standards of the PCAOB. Those standards require that we plan and perform the audit to obtain reasonable assurance about whether effective internal control over financial reporting was maintained in all material respects. Our audit of internal control over financial reporting included obtaining an understanding of internal control over financial reporting, assessing the risk that a material weakness exists, and testing and evaluating the design and operating effectiveness of internal control based on the assessed risk. Our audit also included performing such other procedures as we considered necessary in the circumstances. We believe that our audit provides a reasonable basis for our opinion. 
  Definition and Limitations of Internal Control Over Financial Reporting  
  A company s internal control over financial reporting is a process designed to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles. A company s internal control over financial reporting includes those policies and procedures that (1) pertain to the maintenance of records that, in reasonable detail, accurately and fairly reflect the transactions and dispositions of the assets of the company; (2) provide reasonable assurance that transactions are recorded as necessary to permit preparation of financial statements in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles, and that receipts and expenditures of the company are being made only in accordance with authorizations of management and directors of the company; and (3) provide reasonable assurance regarding prevention or timely detection of unauthorized acquisition, use, or disposition of the company s assets that could have a material effect on the financial statements. 
  Because of its inherent limitations, internal control over financial reporting may not prevent or detect misstatements. Also, projections of any evaluation of effectiveness to future periods are subject to the risk that controls may become inadequate because of changes in conditions, or that the degree of compliance with the policies or procedures may deteriorate. 

/s/ KPMG LLP 
  McLean, Virginia 
  February 16, 2018 

47 

VERISIGN, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED BALANCE SHEETS 
  (In thousands, except par value) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   48 

VERISIGN, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF COMPREHENSIVE INCOME 
  (In thousands, except per share data)    

  See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   49 

VERISIGN, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF STOCKHOLDERS  DEFICIT 
  (In thousands) 

See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements 
  
   50 

VERISIGN, INC. 
  CONSOLIDATED STATEMENTS OF CASH FLOWS 
  (In thousands)    
 See accompanying Notes to Consolidated Financial Statements. 
  
   51 

VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS 
  DECEMBER 31,   2017  ,   2016   AND   2015    
   
  Note 1. Description of Business and Summary of Significant Accounting Policies 
    
  Description of Business  
    
  VeriSign, Inc. ( Verisign  or  the Company ) was incorporated in Delaware on April 12, 1995. The Company has one reportable segment, which consists of Registry Services and Security Services.  Registry Services ensure the security, stability and resiliency of key internet infrastructure and services, including the .  com   and .  net   domains, two of the Internet s root servers, and operation of the root-zone maintainer functions for the core of the internet s Domain Name System ( DNS ).  Security Services provides infrastructure assurance services consisting of Distributed Denial of Services ( DDoS ) Protection Services, and Managed DNS Services.  On April 1, 2017, the Company completed the sale of its iDefense business. 
    
  Basis of Presentation  
    
  The accompanying consolidated financial statements of Verisign and its subsidiaries have been prepared in conformity with generally accepted accounting principles ( GAAP ) in the United States ( U.S. ). All significant intercompany accounts and transactions have been eliminated.  
    
  The preparation of these consolidated financial statements requires management to make estimates and judgments that affect the reported amounts of assets, liabilities, revenues and expenses, and related disclosures of contingent assets and liabilities. Actual results may differ from these estimates under different assumptions or conditions.  
    
  Reclassifications  
    
  Certain reclassifications have been made to prior period amounts to conform to current period presentation. Such reclassifications have no effect on net income as previously reported. 
    
  Adoption of New Accounting Standards 
    
  Effective January 1, 2017, the Company adopted Accounting Standards Update ( ASU ) No. 2016-09,   Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting,   issued by the Financial Accounting Standards Board ( FASB ). The new guidance requires excess tax benefits and tax deficiencies to be recorded as a discrete adjustment to income tax expense when stock awards vest, rather than in additional paid-in capital when they reduce income taxes payable. The Company also made the accounting policy election, as allowed by the new guidance, to account for forfeitures of stock awards as they occur, rather than estimating forfeitures. These changes were required to be applied on a modified retrospective basis through a cumulative-effect adjustment to the opening balance of retained earnings. The cumulative effect of adopting ASU 2016-09 was an increase in Deferred tax assets of $  11.0 million  , a decrease in Deferred tax liabilities of $  24.4 million  , an increase in Additional paid-in capital of $  2.5 million  , and a decrease in Accumulated deficit of $  32.9 million  , as of January 1, 2017, as a result of recognizing $  35.4 million   of previously unrecognized excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation, and a $  2.5 million   adjustment related to the change in accounting policy for forfeitures. Additionally, the new guidance requires cash flows related to excess tax benefits from stock-based compensation to be recognized with other income tax cash flows in operating activities, rather than separately as a financing activity. The Company elected to apply this new cash flow presentation requirement retrospectively, which resulted in an increase to both net cash from operating activities and net cash used in financing activities of $  25.1 million    and $  18.5 million   for the years ended December 31, 2016 and 2015, respectively. 
    
  Effective January 1, 2017, the Company adopted ASU 2017-04,   Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment  , which was issued by the FASB. The guidance in the ASU simplifies certain aspects of the goodwill impairment test, including the elimination of the requirement to perform a qualitative assessment of the likelihood of a goodwill impairment for reporting units with a negative carrying value. All of the Company s goodwill is included in the Registry Services reporting unit which has a negative carrying value. As a result, the Company will no longer be required to perform the qualitative assessment. 

52 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Recent Accounting Pronouncements 
    
  On May 28, 2014, the FASB issued ASU No. 2014-09,   Revenue from Contracts with Customers  , which requires an entity to recognize the amount of revenue to which it expects to be entitled for the transfer of promised goods or services to customers. The ASU will replace most existing revenue recognition guidance in U.S. GAAP when it becomes effective. The new standard will be effective for the Company s 2018 fiscal year. The FASB also issued several amendments to the standard, including clarification on accounting for licenses of intellectual property and identifying performance obligations. Upon adoption the Company will record an asset of $  27.3 million   related to fees paid to ICANN for registrations and renewals of domain names ending in .  com.    These costs have historically been recognized as expense in the period of the registration or renewal but the Company has determined that they represent costs incurred to obtain a contract under the new guidance and will be capitalized and amortized over the respective domain terms beginning in 2018.  The standard will be adopted on a modified retrospective basis and recorded as a cumulative effect adjustment to Accumulated deficit on January 1, 2018.  This adjustment will be reflected in the financial statements included in our Form 10-Q for the three months ended March 31, 2018.   Apart from this adjustment and the inclusion of the additional required disclosures, the Company does not expect the adoption of the new revenue standard to impact its consolidated financial statements. 
  In February 2016, the FASB issued ASU No. 2016-02, Leases. The guidance introduces a lessee model that requires most leases to be reported on the balance sheet. This ASU will become effective for the Company on January 1, 2019 and requires the modified retrospective transition method. Based on its current portfolio of leases, the Company does not expect the adoption of this standard to have a material impact on its consolidated financial statements. 
    
  Significant Accounting Policies  
    
  Cash and Cash Equivalents  
    
  Verisign considers all highly-liquid investments purchased with original maturities of three months or less to be cash equivalents. Cash and cash equivalents include certain money market funds, debt securities and various deposit accounts. Verisign maintains its cash and cash equivalents with financial institutions that have investment grade ratings and, as part of its cash management process, performs periodic evaluations of the relative credit standing of these financial institutions.  
    
  Marketable Securities  
    
  Marketable securities primarily consist of debt securities issued by the U.S. Treasury. All marketable securities are classified as available-for-sale and are carried at fair value. Unrealized gains and losses, net of taxes, are reported as a component of Accumulated other comprehensive loss. The specific identification method is used to determine the cost basis of the marketable securities sold. The Company classifies its marketable securities as current based on their nature and availability for use in current operations.  
     
  Property and Equipment  
    
  Property and equipment are stated at cost less accumulated depreciation. Depreciation is calculated using the straight-line method over the estimated useful lives of the assets of   35   to   47   years for buildings,   10   years for building improvements and   three   to   five   years for computer equipment, software, office equipment, and furniture and fixtures. Leasehold improvements are amortized using the straight-line method over the lesser of the estimated useful lives of the assets or associated lease terms.  
       
  Capitalized Software  
    
  Software included in property and equipment includes amounts paid for purchased software and development costs for internally developed software. The Company capitalized $  17.7 million   and   $18.0 million   of costs related to internally developed software during   2017   and   2016  , respectively. 
    
  Goodwill and Other Long-lived Assets  
    
  Goodwill represents the excess of purchase consideration over fair value of net assets of businesses acquired. Goodwill is not amortized, but instead tested for impairment. All of the Company s goodwill is included in the Registry Services reporting unit which has a negative carrying value. Upon adoption of ASU 2017-04,   Simplifying the Test for Goodwill Impairment   in 2017, the Company is no longer required to perform the qualitative assessment at the end of each reporting period to determine if any events have occurred or circumstances exist that would indicate that it is more likely than not that a goodwill impairment exists. 
  
   53 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Long-lived assets, such as property, plant, and equipment are reviewed for impairment whenever events or changes in circumstances indicate that the carrying amount of an asset, or asset group, may not be recoverable. Such events or circumstances include, but are not limited to, a significant decrease in the fair value of the underlying business, a significant decrease in the benefits realized from an acquired business, difficulties or delays in integrating the business or a significant change in the operations of an acquired business. Recoverability of assets to be held and used is measured by a comparison of the carrying amount of an asset, or asset group, to estimated undiscounted future cash flows expected to be generated by the asset, or asset group. An impairment charge is recognized in the amount by which the carrying amount of the asset exceeds its fair value.  
  As of December 31, 2017, the Company s assets include a deposit related to the purchase of the contractual rights to the .  web   gTLD.  The amount paid to date has been recorded as a deposit until such time that the contractual rights are transferred to the Company.  This asset would be tested for recoverability if the Company were to determine that it is no longer probable that the rights will be transferred.  At the time of the transfer of the contractual rights, the Company will record the amount as an indefinite-lived intangible asset subject to review for impairment on an annual basis or more frequently if events or changes in circumstances indicate that an impairment is more likely than not.   
    
  3.25%   Junior Subordinated Convertible Debentures Due   2037   ( Subordinated Convertible Debentures )  
    
  Upon issuance of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures, Verisign separated the liability (debt) and equity (conversion option) components in a manner that reflected the borrowing rate for a similar non-convertible debt. The liability component was recognized based on the fair value of a similar instrument without a conversion feature at issuance. The excess of the principal amount of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures over the liability component at issuance is the equity component or debt discount. Such excess represents the estimated fair value of the conversion feature and is recorded as Additional paid-in capital. The debt discount is amortized using the Company s effective interest rate over the term of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures as a non-cash charge to interest expense.  
  The Subordinated Convertible Debentures also have a contingent interest payment provision that requires the Company to pay interest based on certain thresholds, and upon the occurrence of certain events, as outlined in the Indenture governing the Subordinated Convertible Debentures. The contingent interest payment provision was identified as an embedded derivative, and accounted for separately at fair value, with any gains and losses recorded in Non-operating income (loss), net.  Contingent interest payments through August 15, 2017, reflected the settlement of the embedded derivative. Effective August 15, 2017, Verisign has the right to redeem the Subordinated Convertible Debentures under the terms of the indenture, Therefore, the fair value of the contingent interest embedded derivative for periods after August 15, 2017 is negligible and is no longer recognized separately.  Expense for contingent interest payments after August 15, 2017 are included within Interest expense on the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income.   
    
  Foreign Currency Remeasurement 
    
  Verisign conducts business in several different countries and transacts in multiple currencies. The functional currency for all of Verisign s international subsidiaries is the U.S. Dollar. The Company s subsidiaries  financial statements are remeasured into U.S. Dollars using a combination of current and historical exchange rates and any remeasurement gains and losses are included in Non-operating income (loss), net. Remeasurement gains and losses were not significant in each of the last three years.   
     
  Verisign maintains a foreign currency risk management program designed to mitigate foreign exchange risks associated with the monetary assets and liabilities that are denominated in currencies other than the U.S. dollar. The primary objective of this program is to minimize the gains and losses resulting from fluctuations in exchange rates. The Company does not enter into foreign currency transactions for trading or speculative purposes, nor does it hedge foreign currency exposures in a manner that entirely offsets the effects of changes in exchange rates. The program may entail the use of forward or option contracts, which are usually placed and adjusted monthly. These foreign currency forward contracts are derivatives and are recorded at fair market value. The Company records gains and losses on foreign currency forward contracts in Non-operating income (loss), net. Gains and losses related to foreign currency forward contracts were not significant in each of the last three years.  
    
  As of   December 31, 2017  , Verisign held foreign currency forward contracts in notional amounts totaling   $29.7 million   to mitigate the impact of exchange rate fluctuations associated with certain assets and liabilities held in foreign currencies.  
  
   54 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Revenue Recognition    
    
  Verisign recognizes revenues when the following four criteria are met:  

Persuasive evidence of an arrangement exists: It is the Company s customary practice to have a written contract, signed by both the customer and Verisign or a service order form from those customers who have previously negotiated a standard master services agreement with Verisign.  

Delivery has occurred or services have been rendered: The Company s services are usually delivered continuously from service activation date through the term of the arrangement.  

The fee is fixed or determinable: Substantially all of the Company s revenue arrangements have fixed or determinable fees.  

Collectability is reasonably assured: Collectability is assessed on a customer-by-customer basis. Verisign typically sells to customers for whom there is a history of successful collection. The majority of customers either maintain a deposit with Verisign or provide an irrevocable letter of credit in excess of the amounts owed. New customers are subjected to a credit review process that evaluates the customer s financial condition and, ultimately, their ability to pay. If Verisign determines from the outset of an arrangement that collectability is not probable based upon its credit review process, revenues are recognized as cash is collected.  
       
  Registry Services  
    
  Registry Services revenues primarily arise from fixed fees charged to registrars for the initial registration or renewal of   .com  ,   .net  ,     and other domain names. Revenues from the initial registration or renewal of     domain names are deferred and recognized ratably over the registration term, generally   one   year and up to   ten   years. Fees for renewals and advance extensions to the existing term are deferred until the new incremental period commences. These fees are then recognized ratably over the renewal term.  
    
  Verisign also offers promotional marketing programs to its registrars based upon market conditions and the business environment in which the registrars operate. Amounts payable to these registrars for such promotional marketing programs are usually recorded as a reduction of revenue.  If Verisign obtains an identifiable benefit separate from the services it provides to the registrars, then amounts payable up to the fair value of the benefit received are recorded as advertising expenses and the excess, if any, is recorded as a reduction of revenue.  
    
  Security Services  
    
  Following the revenue recognition criteria above, revenues from Security Services are usually deferred and recognized over the service term, generally   one   to   two   years.  
    
  Advertising Expenses  
    
  Advertising costs are expensed as incurred and are included in Sales and marketing expenses. Advertising expenses, including costs for advertising campaigns conducted jointly with our registrar customers were   $27.4 million  ,   $17.2 million  , and   $16.0 million   in   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015  , respectively.  
    
  Income Taxes  
    
  Verisign uses the asset and liability method to account for income taxes. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are recognized for the future tax consequences attributable to differences between the financial statement carrying amounts of existing assets and liabilities and their respective tax bases and net operating loss carryforwards. Deferred tax assets and liabilities are measured using enacted tax rates expected to apply to taxable income in the years in which those temporary differences are expected to be recovered or settled. The Tax Cuts and Jobs Act ( Tax Act ) was enacted on December 22, 2017, most provisions of which will take effect starting in 2018.  The Tax Act makes substantial changes to U.S. taxation of corporations, including, lowering the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from 35% to 21%, and instituting a territorial tax system, along with a one-time tax on accumulated foreign earnings.  The effect on deferred tax assets and liabilities of a change in law or tax rates is recognized in income in the period that includes the enactment date. The Company records a valuation allowance to reduce deferred tax assets to an amount whose realization is more likely than not.  For every tax-paying component and within each tax jurisdiction, all deferred tax liabilities and assets are offset and presented as a single net noncurrent asset or liability.  
  
   55 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

The Company s income taxes payable is reduced by the tax benefits from restricted stock unit ( RSU ) vestings equal to the fair market value of the stock at the vesting date. Subsequent to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-09,   Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting   on January 1, 2017, if the income tax benefit at the exercise or vesting date differs from the income tax benefit recorded based on the grant date fair value of the RSUs, the excess or shortfall of the tax benefit is recognized within income tax expense.  
  Among other changes, the Tax Act includes a provision designed to currently tax global intangible low-taxed income ( GILTI ).  The Company is evaluating available accounting policy alternatives to either record the U.S. income tax effect of future GILTI inclusions in the period in which they arise or establish deferred taxes with respect to the expected future tax liabilities associated with future GILTI inclusions, but has not yet made a policy election. 
  Verisign s global operations involve dealing with uncertainties and judgments in the application of complex tax regulations in multiple jurisdictions. The final taxes payable are dependent upon many factors, including negotiations with taxing authorities in various jurisdictions and resolution of disputes arising from U.S. federal, state, and international tax audits. The Company may only recognize or continue to recognize tax positions that are more likely than not to be sustained upon examination. The Company adjusts these liabilities for uncertain tax positions in light of changing facts and circumstances; however, due to the complexity of some of these uncertainties, the ultimate resolution may result in a payment that is materially different from its current estimate of the tax liabilities.  
     
  The Company s assumptions, judgments and estimates relative to the value of a deferred tax asset take into account predictions of the amount and character of future taxable income, such as income from operations or capital gains income. Actual operating results and the underlying amount and character of income in future years could render the Company s current assumptions, judgments and estimates of recoverable net deferred taxes inaccurate. Any of the assumptions, judgments and estimates mentioned above could cause the Company s actual income tax obligations to differ from its estimates, thus materially impacting its financial condition and results of operations.  
    
  Stock-based Compensation  
    
  The Company s stock-based compensation is primarily related to RSUs granted to employees and its employee stock purchase plan ( ESPP ). Stock-based compensation expense is typically recognized ratably over the requisite service period. Subsequent to the adoption of ASU No. 2016-09,   Improvements to Employee Share-Based Payment Accounting   on January 1, 2017, forfeitures of stock-based awards are no longer estimated at the time of grant but are recognized as they occur.  The Company also grants RSUs which include performance conditions, and in some cases market conditions, to certain executives.  The expense for these performance-based RSUs is recognized based on the probable outcome of the performance conditions.  The expense recognized for awards with market conditions is based on the grant date fair value of the awards including the impact of the market conditions, using a Monte Carlo simulation model.  The Company uses the Black-Scholes option pricing model to determine the fair value of its ESPP offerings. The determination of the fair value of stock-based payment awards using the Monte Carlo simulation model or the Black-Scholes option-pricing model is affected by the Company s stock price as well as assumptions regarding a number of complex and subjective variables. 
    
  Earnings per Share 
    
  The Company computes basic earnings per share by dividing net income by the weighted-average number of common shares outstanding during the period. Diluted earnings per share gives effect to dilutive potential common shares, including outstanding stock options, unvested RSUs, ESPP offerings and the conversion spread related to the Subordinated Convertible Debentures using the treasury stock method. 
    
  Fair Value of Financial Instruments  
    
  The Company applies the following fair value hierarchy, which prioritizes the inputs used to measure fair value into three levels and bases the categorization within the hierarchy upon the lowest level of input that is available and significant to the fair value measurement:  

Level 1: Observable inputs that reflect quoted prices (unadjusted) for identical assets or liabilities in active markets.  
                
    Level 2: Inputs reflect quoted prices for identical assets or liabilities in markets that are not active; quoted prices for similar assets or liabilities in active markets; inputs other than quoted prices that are observable for the assets or liabilities; or inputs that are derived principally from or corroborated by observable market data by correlation or other means.  
     
   56 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Level 3: Unobservable inputs reflecting the Company s own assumptions incorporated in valuation techniques used to determine fair value. These assumptions are required to be consistent with market participant assumptions that are reasonably available.  
       
  The Company measures and reports certain financial assets and liabilities at fair value on a recurring basis, including its investments in money market funds classified as Cash and cash equivalents, marketable securities, and foreign currency forward contracts. 
    
  Legal Proceedings  
  Verisign is involved in various investigations, claims and lawsuits arising in the normal conduct of its business, none of which, in its opinion, will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. The Company cannot assure you that it will prevail in any litigation. Regardless of the outcome, any litigation may require the Company to incur significant litigation expense and may result in significant diversion of management attention. 
  While certain legal proceedings and related indemnification obligations to which the Company is a party specify the amounts claimed, such claims may not represent reasonably possible losses. Given the inherent uncertainties of the litigation, the ultimate outcome of these matters cannot be predicted at this time, nor can the amount of possible loss or range of loss, if any, be reasonably estimated, except in circumstances where an aggregate litigation accrual has been recorded for probable and reasonably estimable loss contingencies. A determination of the amount of accrual required, if any, for these contingencies is made after careful analysis of each matter. The required accrual may change in the future due to new developments in each matter or changes in approach such as a change in settlement strategy in dealing with these matters. The Company does not believe that any such matter currently being reviewed will have a material adverse effect on its financial condition, results of operations, or cash flows. 

Note 2. Financial Instruments 
  Cash, Cash Equivalents, and Marketable Securities 
  The following table summarizes the Company s cash, cash equivalents, and marketable securities and the fair value categorization of the financial instruments measured at fair value on a recurring basis:  

The fair value of the debt securities held as of   December 31, 2017   was   $2.2 billion  , including less than $  1.0 million   of gross and net unrealized losses. All of the debt securities held as of   December 31, 2017   have contractual maturities of less than one year. 
  
   57 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Fair Value Measurements 
    
  The fair value of the Company s investments in money market funds approximates their face value. Such instruments are classified as Level 1 and are included in Cash and cash equivalents.  
    
  The fair value of the debt securities consisting of U.S. Treasury bills is based on their quoted market prices and are classified as Level 1.  Debt securities purchased with original maturities in excess of three months are included in Marketable securities.  Debt securities purchased with original maturities less than three months are included in Cash and cash equivalents. 
  The fair value of the equity securities of public companies is based on quoted market prices and are classified as Level 1. Investments in equity securities of public companies are included in marketable securities. 
  As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company s other financial instruments include cash, accounts receivable, restricted cash, and accounts payable whose carrying values approximated their fair values. The fair value of the Company s Subordinated Convertible Debentures was   $4.2 billion   as of   December 31, 2017  .  The fair values of the Company s senior notes due 2023 (the  2023 Senior Notes ), the senior notes due 2025 (the  2025 Senior Notes ), and the senior notes due 2027 (the  2027 Senior Notes ) were   $772.9 million  ,   $544.4 million  , and   $563.7 million  , respectively, as of   December 31, 2017  .  The fair values of these debt instruments are based on available market information from public data sources and are classified as Level 2. 

Note 3. Other Balance Sheet Items 
  Other Current Assets 
  Other current assets consist of the following:    

Property and Equipment, Net  
    
  The following table presents the detail of property and equipment, net: 

58 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Goodwill  
    
  The following table presents the detail of goodwill: 

There was no impairment of goodwill or other long-lived assets recognized in any of the periods presented. 
    
  Deposits to Acquire Intangible Assets 
    
  As of December 31, 2017, the Company has recorded   $145.0 million   for the future assignment to the Company of contractual rights to the   .web   gTLD, pending resolution of objections by other applicants, regulatory review, and approval from ICANN.  Upon assignment of the contractual rights, the Company will record the total investment as an indefinite-lived intangible asset. 
    
  Other Long-Term Assets 
  Other long-term assets consist of the following:    

Accounts Payable and Accrued Liabilities 
  Accounts payable and accrued liabilities consist of the following:    

59 

VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Note 4. Debt and Interest Expense 
  Senior Notes 
  As of December 31, 2017, the Company had senior notes outstanding of   $1.8 billion  , net of unamortized issuance costs.  The balance of the senior notes includes the $  550.0 million   principal amount of   4.75%   senior unsecured notes which were issued in July 2017.  All of the outstanding senior notes were issued at par and are senior unsecured obligations of the Company.  Interest is payable on each of the senior notes semi-annually.  Each of the senior notes issuances is redeemable, in whole or in part, at the Company s option at times and redemption prices specified in the indentures. 
  The following table summarizes information related to our Senior notes (in thousands, except interest rates):   

  The indenture governing the 2023 Senior Notes contains covenants that limit the ability of the Company and/or its restricted subsidiaries, under certain circumstances, to, among other things: (i) pay dividends or make distributions on, or redeem or repurchase, its capital stock; (ii) make certain investments; (iii) create liens on assets; (iv) enter into sale/leaseback transactions and (v) merge or consolidate or sell all or substantially all of its assets. These covenants are subject to a number of important limitations and exceptions. The Indenture also provides for events of default, which, if any of them occurs, may permit or, in certain circumstances, require the principal, premium, if any, accrued and unpaid interest and any other monetary obligations on all the then outstanding Notes to be due and payable immediately.  The Company has remained in compliance with these covenants and no events of default have occurred over the term of the Notes. 
    
  2015 Credit Facility  
    
  On March 31, 2015, the Company entered into a credit agreement for a $  200.0   million committed senior unsecured revolving credit facility (the  2015 Credit Facility ). The 2015 Credit Facility includes financial covenants requiring that the Company s interest coverage ratio not be less than   3.0   to 1.0 for any period of four consecutive quarters and the Company s leverage ratio not exceed   2.5   to 1.0. As of   December 31, 2017  , there were no borrowings outstanding under the facility and the Company was in compliance with the financial covenants. The 2015 Credit Facility expires on   April 1, 2020   at which time any outstanding borrowings are due. Verisign may from time to time request lenders to agree on a discretionary basis to increase the commitment amount by up to an aggregate of $  150.0   million. 
    
  Subordinated Convertible Debentures  
    
  In August 2007, Verisign issued   $1.25 billion   principal amount of   3.25%   subordinated convertible debentures due   August 15, 2037  , in a private offering. The Subordinated Convertible Debentures are initially convertible, subject to certain conditions, into shares of the Company s common stock at a conversion rate of   29.0968   shares of common stock per   $1,000   principal amount of Subordinated Convertible Debentures, representing an initial effective conversion price of approximately   $34.37   per share of common stock.  
    
  The Company s common stock price exceeded the current conversion price threshold trigger of $  44.68   during the fourth quarter of   2017  .  Accordingly, the Subordinated Convertible Debentures were convertible at the option of each holder during the first quarter of 2018.  Further, in the event of conversion, the Company intends, and has the ability, to settle the principal amount of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures in cash, and therefore, classified the debt component of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures, net of unamortized debt issuance costs as a current liability, as of   December 31, 2017  . As of   December 31, 2017  , the if-converted value of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures exceeded its principal amount. Based on the if-converted value of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures as of   December 31, 2017  , the conversion spread could have required the Company to issue up to an additional   25.4   million shares of common stock.  
  
   60 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

At issuance, the Company calculated the carrying value of the liability component as the present value of its cash flows using a discount rate of   8.5%   (borrowing rate for similar non-convertible debt with no contingent payment options), adjusted for the fair value of the contingent interest feature, yielding an effective interest rate of   8.39%  . The excess of the principal amount of the debt over the carrying value of the liability component is also referred to as the  debt discount  or  equity component  of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures.  The debt discount has been amortized using the Company s effective interest rate of   8.39%   over the 30 year term of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures as a non-cash charge included in Interest expense. Interest is paid semiannually in arrears on August 15 and February 15.  
  Proceeds upon issuance of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures were as follows (in thousands):  

The table below presents the carrying amounts of the liability and equity components:  

The Company evaluated its debt obligations, including the Subordinated Convertible Debentures subsequent to the enactment of the Tax Act which lowers the U.S. federal income tax rate and imposes a new limitation on interest deductibility for tax purposes.  On February 15, 2018, the Company called for the redemption of all of the outstanding Subordinated Convertible Debentures. The debentures will be redeemed on May 1, 2018 at a redemption price equal to 100% of the principal, plus accrued but unpaid interest up to, but not including, the redemption date.  The Subordinated Convertible Debentures called for redemption may be converted at any time before the close of business on Monday, April 30, 2018. If holders elect to convert their debentures, the Company intends to settle the $1.25 billion principal value in cash, and the excess value will be settled in shares of the Company s stock.  
  
   61 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

The following table presents the components of the Company s interest expense:   

Note 5. Stockholders  Deficit 
    
  Treasury Stock  
    
  Treasury stock is accounted for under the cost method. Treasury stock includes shares repurchased under stock repurchase programs and shares withheld in lieu of minimum tax withholdings due upon vesting of RSUs. 
    
  On   February 9, 2017  , the Company s Board of Directors ( Board ) authorized the repurchase of approximately   $640.9 million   of its common stock, in addition to the   $359.1 million   of its common stock remaining available for repurchase under the previous share repurchase program, for a total repurchase authorization of up to   $1.0 billion   of its common stock. The share repurchase program has no expiration date. Purchases made under the program could be effected through open market transactions, block purchases, accelerated share repurchase agreements or other negotiated transactions. As of December 31,   2017   there was approximately $  477.4 million   remaining available for repurchases under the share repurchase program.   
    
  Effective February 8, 2018, the Company s Board authorized the repurchase of approximately   $585.8 million   of its common stock, in addition to the   $414.2 million   of its common stock remaining available for repurchase under the previous share repurchase program, for a total repurchase authorization of up to   $1.0 billion   of its common stock. 
    
  The summary of the Company s common stock repurchases for   2017  ,   2016   and   2015   are as follows:  

Since inception, the Company has repurchased   227.6 million   shares of its common stock for an aggregate cost of   $8.8 billion  , which is recorded as a reduction of Additional paid-in capital. 
  
   62 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Accumulated Other Comprehensive Loss 
    
  The following table summarizes the changes in the components of Accumulated other comprehensive loss for   2017   and   2016  : 

Note 6. Calculation of Earnings per Share  
  The following table presents the computation of weighted-average shares used in the calculation of basic and diluted earnings per share: 

The calculation of diluted weighted average shares outstanding, excludes potentially dilutive securities, the effect of which would have been anti-dilutive, as well as performance based RSUs granted by the Company for which the relevant performance criteria have not been achieved. The number of potential shares excluded from the calculation was not significant in any period presented. 

Note 7. Geographic and Customer Information  
    
  The Company generates revenue in the U.S.; Europe, the Middle East and Africa ( EMEA  China; and certain other countries, including Canada, Australia and Japan.  
    
  The following table presents a comparison of the Company s geographic revenues:  

63 

    VERISIGN, INC. 
  NOTES TO CONSOLIDATED FINANCIAL STATEMENTS - (Continued) 
  DECEMBER 31, 2017, 2016 AND 2015 

Revenues for our Registry Services business are generally attributed to the country of domicile and the respective regions in which the Company s registrars are located, however, this may differ from the regions where the registrars operate or where registrants are located.  Revenue growth for each region may be impacted by registrars reincorporating, relocating, or from acquisitions or changes in affiliations of resellers. Revenue growth for each region may also be impacted by registrars domiciled in one region, registering domain names in another region.  
    
  The following table presents a comparison of property and equipment, net of accumulated depreciation, by geographic region: 

Major Customers  
    
  One   customer accounted for approximately   31%  ,   30%  , and   31%   of revenues in   2017  , 2016, and   2015  , respectively. The Company does not believe that the loss of this customer would have a material adverse effect on the Company s business because, in that event, end-users of this customer would transfer to the Company s other existing customers.  

Note 8. Employee Benefits and Stock-based Compensation 
    
  401(k) Plan  
    
  The Company maintains a defined contribution 401(k) plan (the  401(k) Plan ) for substantially all of its U.S. employees. Under the 401(k) Plan, eligible employees may contribute up to   50%   of their pre-tax salary, subject to the Internal Revenue Service ( IRS ) annual contribution limits. The Company matches   50%   of up to the first   6%   of the employee s annual salary contributed to the plan. The Company contributed   $4.0 million   in   2017  ,   $3.8 million   in   2016  , and   $3.7 million   in   2015   under the 401(k) Plan. The Company can terminate matching contributions at its discretion at any time.  
    
  Equity Incentive Plan  
    
  The majority of Verisign s stock-based compensation relates to RSUs.  As of   December 31, 2017  , a total of   10.5 million   shares of common stock were reserved for issuance upon the vesting of RSUs and for the future grant of equity awards.  
    
  On May 26, 2006, the stockholders of Verisign approved the 2006 Equity Incentive Plan, which was amended and restated on June 9, 2016 (the  2006 Plan ).  The 2006 Plan authorizes the award of incentive stock options to employees and non-qualified stock options, restricted stock awards, RSUs, stock bonus awards, stock appreciation rights and performance shares to eligible employees, officers, directors, consultants, independent contractors and advisers. The 2006 Plan is administered by the Compensation Committee which may delegate to a committee of one or more members of the Board or Verisign s officers the ability to grant certain awards and take certain other actions with respect to participants who are not executive officers or non-employee directors. RSUs are awards covering a specified number of shares of Verisign common stock that may be settled by issuance of those shares (which may be restricted shares). RSUs generally vest over four years.  Certain performance-based RSUs, granted to the Company s executives, vest over either three or four year terms. Additionally, the Company has granted fully vested RSUs to members of its Board in each of the last three years.  The Compensation Committee may authorize grants with a different vesting schedule in the future. A total of   27.0   million common shares were authorized and reserved for issuance under the 2006 Plan.  
          
  2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan  
    
  On August 30, 2007, the Company s stockholders approved the 2007 Employee Stock Purchase Plan, and in 2017 approved an amendment to increase the shares reserved for issuance by   2.5 million   to a total of   8.5   million common shares authorized and reserved for issuance under the ESPP.  Eligible employees may purchase common stock through payroll deductions by electing to have between   2%   and   25%   of their compensation withheld to cover the purchase price. Each  
  
   64 

participant is granted an option to purchase common stock on the first day of each 24-month offering period and this option is automatically exercised on the last day of each six-month purchase period during the offering period. The purchase price for the common stock under the ESPP is   85%   of the lesser of the fair market value of the common stock on the first day of the applicable offering period or the last day of the applicable purchase period. Offering periods begin on the first business day of February and August of each year. As of   December 31, 2017  ,   3.5   million shares of the Company s common stock remain reserved for future issuance under this plan.  
    
  Stock-based Compensation  
  Stock-based compensation is classified in the Consolidated Statements of Comprehensive Income in the same expense line items as cash compensation. The following table presents the classification of stock-based compensation: 

The following table presents the nature of the Company s total stock-based compensation:   

The income tax benefit that was included within Income tax expense related to these stock-based compensation expenses  for   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015   was $  12.5   million, $  17.7   million, and $  16.0   million, respectively.  In 2017, the tax benefit reflects the reduction in the U.S. statutory corporate tax rate from 35% to 21%. 
    
  RSUs Information  
    
  The following table summarizes unvested RSUs activity: 

65 

The RSUs in the table above include certain RSUs granted to the Company s executives that are subject to performance conditions, and in some cases, market conditions. The unvested RSUs as of   December 31, 2017   include approximately   0.4   million RSUs subject to performance and/or market conditions.  The number of RSUs, subject to these performance and market conditions, that ultimately vest may range from   zero   to a maximum of   0.8   million RSUs depending on the level of performance achieved and whether any market conditions are satisfied. 
    
  The closing price of Verisign s stock was $  114.44   on   December 31, 2017  .  As of   December 31, 2017  , the aggregate market value of unvested RSUs was $  181.7   million. The fair values of RSUs that vested during   2017  ,   2016  , and   2015   were $  75.9   million, $  70.5   million, and $  59.8   million, respectively.   As of   December 31, 2017  , total unrecognized compensation cost related to unvested RSUs was $  77.5   million which is expected to be recognized over a weighted-average period of   2.5   years.  

Note 9. Non-operating Income (Loss), Net  
  The following table presents the components of Non-operating income (loss), net:  

Interest income is earned principally from the Company s surplus cash balances and marketable securities. On April 1, 2017, the Company completed the sale of its iDefense business, which resulted in a gain of approximately   $10.4 million   in 2017. The unrealized gains and losses on the contingent interest derivative on the Subordinated Convertible Debentures reflects the change in value of the derivative that results primarily from the changes in the Company s stock price. The fair value of the contingent interest derivative for periods after August 15, 2017 is negligible due to the Company s right to redeem the debentures. Contingent interest after August 15, 2017 was included in Interest expense. 
   
  Note 10. Income Taxes 
    
  Income before income taxes is categorized geographically as follows: 

66 

The provision for income taxes consisted of the following: 

The difference between income tax expense and the amount resulting from applying the federal statutory rate of   35%   to Income before income taxes is attributable to the following:  

The Tax Act was enacted on December 22, 2017, most provisions of which will take effect starting in 2018.  The Tax Act makes substantial changes to U.S. taxation of corporations, including, lowering the U.S. federal corporate income tax rate from   35%   to   21%  , and instituting a territorial tax system, along with a one-time tax on accumulated foreign earnings.  Upon enactment, the Company remeasured its deferred tax balances to reflect the new   21%   U.S. federal tax rate, which resulted in a tax benefit of $  186.8 million   in 2017.  The Company also recorded a provisional deferred tax liability for the one-time U.S. tax of $  162.4 million  , triggered by the Tax Act, on accumulated foreign earnings, net of $  38.3 million   of resulting previously unrecognized foreign tax credits.  As a result of the Tax Act, the Company no longer intends to indefinitely reinvest the earnings of its foreign subsidiaries offshore, and therefore, recognized a provisional deferred tax liability of   $33.6 million   for foreign withholding tax on its unremitted foreign earnings, net of $  26.3 million   of resulting foreign tax credits.   
  The Company has not completed its accounting for the tax effects of the enactment of the Tax Act.  Specifically, the amounts recorded for the U.S. tax on accumulated foreign earnings, net of foreign tax credits and the foreign withholding tax on unremitted foreign earnings, net of foreign tax credits, and the state income tax effects of these two items are provisional amounts based on the Company s estimates.  The Company expects to complete the accounting for these impacts of the Tax Act in the fourth quarter of 2018 as it finalizes its cumulative earnings and profits of its foreign subsidiaries and receives additional guidance from the IRS pertaining to the Tax Act.  The impacts of additional guidance and changes in estimates related to the effects of the Tax Act, if any, will be recorded in the period the additional guidance or information is available. 
  
   67 

The Company qualifies for a tax holiday in Switzerland which does not expire, unless the required non-Swiss income and expense thresholds are no longer met, or there is a law change which eliminates the holiday. The tax holiday provides reduced rates of taxation on certain types of income and also require certain thresholds of foreign source income.  The tax holiday increased the Company s earnings per share by   $0.10  , $  0.16  , and $  0.14   in 2017, 2016, and 2015, respectively.  
    
  The tax effects of temporary differences that give rise to significant portions of the Company s deferred tax assets and liabilities are as follows: 

With the exception of deferred tax assets related to capital loss and certain state net operating loss carryforwards, management believes it is more likely than not that the tax effects of the deferred tax liabilities together with future taxable income, will be sufficient to fully recover the remaining deferred tax assets. 
    
  As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company had federal, state and foreign net operating loss carryforwards of approximately $  5.5 million  ,   $1.3 billion   and $  18.9 million  , respectively, before applying tax rates for the respective jurisdictions. As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company had federal and state research tax credits of $  4.2 million   and   $2.3 million  , respectively, and alternative minimum tax credits of $  17.0 million   available for future years. Certain net operating loss carryforwards and credits are subject to an annual limitation under Internal Revenue Code Section 382, but are expected to be fully realized. The federal and state net operating loss and federal tax credit carryforwards expire in various years from   2018 through 2034  . The foreign net operating loss can be carried forward indefinitely.  As of   December 31, 2017  , the Company had federal and state capital loss carryforwards of $  2.9   billion and $  3.1 billion  , respectively, before applying tax rates for the respective jurisdictions. The capital loss carryforwards expire in 2018 and are also subject to annual limitations under Internal Revenue Code Section 382. The Company does not expect to realize any tax benefits from the capital loss carryforwards and accordingly has reserved the entire amount through valuation allowance and accrual for uncertain tax positions.  As of December 31, 2017, the Company has foreign tax credit carryforwards of $  121.5 million  .  The majority of these foreign tax credits will expire in   2024  .  
    
  The deferred tax liability related to the Subordinated Convertible Debentures is driven by the excess of the tax deduction taken for interest expense over the amount of interest expense recognized in the consolidated financial statements. The interest expense deducted for tax purposes is based on the adjusted issue price of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures, while the interest expense recognized in accordance with GAAP is based only on the liability portion of the Subordinated Convertible  
  
   68 

Debentures. The adjusted issue price of the Subordinated Convertible Debentures grows over the term due to the difference between the interest deduction taken for income tax, using a comparable yield of   8.5%  , and the coupon rate of   3.25%  , compounded annually, adjusted for actual versus projected contingent interest payments 
    
  The Company maintains liabilities for uncertain tax positions. These liabilities involve considerable judgment and estimation and are continuously monitored by management based on the best information available including changes in tax regulations and other information. A reconciliation of the beginning and ending balances of the total amounts of gross unrecognized tax benefits is as follows: 

As of   December 31, 2017  , approximately $  217.0   million of unrecognized tax benefits, including penalties and interest, could affect the Company s tax provision and effective tax rate. It is reasonably possible that during the next twelve months, the Company s unrecognized tax benefits may change by a significant amount as a result of IRS audits.  However the timing of completion and ultimate outcome of the audits remains uncertain. Therefore, the Company cannot currently estimate the impact on the balance of unrecognized tax benefits. 
  In accordance with its accounting policy, the Company recognizes accrued interest and penalties related to unrecognized tax benefits as a component of tax expense.  These accruals were not material in any period presented. 
    
  The Company s major taxing jurisdictions are the U.S., the state of Virginia, and Switzerland. The Company s U.S. federal income tax returns are currently under examination by the IRS for 2010 through 2014.  The Company s other tax returns are not currently under examination by their respective taxing jurisdictions. Because the Company has used net operating loss carryforwards and other tax attributes to offset its taxable income in current and future years  income tax returns for the U.S. and Virginia, such attributes can be adjusted by these taxing authorities until the statute closes on the year in which such attributes were utilized. The open years in Switzerland are the 2012 tax year and forward. 

Note 11. Commitments and Contingencies 
    
  Purchase Obligations and Contractual Agreements  
    
  The following table represents the minimum payments required by Verisign under certain purchase obligations, leases, the   .tv   Agreement with the Government of Tuvalu, and the interest payments and principal on the Subordinated Convertible Debentures and the Senior Notes:  

69 

The amounts included in the table above related to the Subordinated Convertible Debentures include the February 2018 coupon and contingent interest payments in addition to the repayment of the full principal amount as a result of the redemption of the debentures as discussed in Note 4,  Debt and Interest Expense.  
  The amounts in the table above exclude $  217.0   million of income tax related uncertain tax positions, as the Company is unable to reasonably estimate the ultimate amount or time of settlement of those liabilities.  
    
  Verisign enters into certain purchase obligations with various vendors. The Company s significant purchase obligations include firm commitments with telecommunication carriers and other service providers. The Company does not have any significant purchase obligations beyond 2022.  
  The Company has an agreement with Internet Corporation for Assigned Names and Numbers ( ICANN ) to be the sole registry operator for domain names in the   .com   registry through   November 30, 2024  . Under this agreement, the Company pays ICANN on a quarterly basis, $  0.25   for each annual increment of a domain name registered or renewed during such quarter.  As of   December 31, 2017  , there were   131.9   million domain names in the .  com   registry.  However, the number of domain names registered and renewed each quarter may vary significantly.  The Company incurred registry fees for the .  com   registry of $  32.3   million in   2017  , $  31.5   million in   2016  , and $  30.9   million in   2015  .  Registry fees for other top-level domains that we operate have been excluded from the table above because the amounts are variable or passed through to registrars.    
  The Company has an agreement with the Government of Tuvalu to be the sole registry operator for   .tv   domain names through December 31, 2021. Registry fees were $  5.0 million   in each of the last three years. 
  Verisign leases a small portion of its facilities under operating leases that extend into 2020.  Rental expenses under operating leases were not material in any period presented.  Future rental expenses under existing operating leases are not material. 
    
  Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements  
    
  As of December 31,   2017   and   2016  , the Company did not have any relationships with unconsolidated entities or financial partnerships, such as entities often referred to as structured finance or special purpose entities, which would have been established for the purpose of facilitating off-balance sheet arrangements or other contractually narrow or limited purposes. As such, the Company is not exposed to any financing, liquidity, market or credit risk that could arise if the Company had engaged in such relationships.  
    
  It is not the Company s business practice to enter into off-balance sheet arrangements. However, in the normal course of business, the Company does enter into contracts in which it makes representations and warranties that guarantee the performance of the Company s products and services. Historically, there have been no significant losses related to such guarantees.  

70 

SIGNATURES 
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of Section 13 or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, the registrant has duly caused this report to be signed on its behalf by the undersigned, thereunto duly authorized, in the City of Reston, Commonwealth of Virginia, on the 16   th    day of February 2018.  
  V  ERISIGN  , I  NC  . 
                     
    By: 
    /S/    D. J  AMES   B  IDZOS           

D. James Bidzos 

President and Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

KNOW ALL PERSONS BY THESE PRESENTS that each individual whose signature appears below constitutes and appoints D. James Bidzos, George E. Kilguss, III, and Thomas C. Indelicarto, and each of them, his or her true lawful attorneys-in-fact and agents, with full power of substitution, for him or her and in his or her name, place and stead, in any and all capacities, to sign any and all amendments to this Annual Report on Form 10-K and to file the same, with all exhibits thereto and all documents in connection therewith, with the Securities and Exchange Commission, granted unto said attorneys-in-fact and agents, and each of them, full power and authority to do and perform each and every act and thing requisite and necessary to be done in and about the premises, as fully to all intents and purposes as he or she might or could do in person, hereby ratifying and confirming all that said attorneys-in-fact and agents or any of them, or his, her or their substitute or substitutes, may lawfully do or cause to be done by virtue hereof.  
    
  Pursuant to the requirements of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934, this report has been signed by the following persons on behalf of the registrant and in the capacities indicated on the 16   th    day of February 2018.  
                   Signature 
      
    Title 

/S/    D. J  AMES   B  IDZOS    
      
    President, Chief Executive Officer,  
    Executive Chairman and Director  
    (Principal Executive Officer) 
             D. J  AMES   B  IDZOS 

/S/    G  EORGE   E. K  ILGUSS  , III 
      
    Chief Financial Officer 
    (Principal Financial and Accounting Officer) 
               G  EORGE   E. K  ILGUSS  , III 

/S/    K  ATHLEEN   A. C  OTE       
      
    Director 
                 K  ATHLEEN   A. C  OTE 

/S/   T  HOMAS   F. F  RIST   III     
      
    Director 
      T  HOMAS   F. F  RIST   III 

/S/  J  AMIE   S. G  ORELICK 
      
    Director 
            J  AMIE   S. G  ORELICK 

/S/    R  OGER   H. M  OORE       
      
    Director 
                 R  OGER   H. M  OORE 

/S/     L  OUIS   A. S  IMPSON         
      
    Director 
             L  OUIS   A. S  IMPSON 

/S/    T  IMOTHY   T  OMLINSON         
      
    Director 
               T  IMOTHY   T  OMLINSON 

71 

<EX-3.02>
 2
 vrsn-20171231x10kxex302.htm
 EXHIBIT 3.02

Exhibit 

BYLAWS 
  of 
  VERISIGN, INC. 
  (Effective February 14, 2018) 
    
  ARTICLE I 
    
  Stockholders 
    
  Section 1.    Annual Meeting  .  An annual meeting of the stockholders of the corporation, for the election of the directors to succeed those whose terms expire and for the transaction of such other business as may properly come before the meeting, shall be held at such place, on such date and at such time as the Board of Directors shall each year fix. 
    
  Section 2.    Special Meetings  .  (a) Special meetings of the stockholders, for any purpose or purposes prescribed in the notice of the meeting, shall be held at such place, on such date, and at such time as determined by the Board of Directors and may be called only by (i) the Board of Directors pursuant to a resolution adopted by a majority of the total number of directors authorized by resolutions (whether or not there exist any vacancies in previously authorized directorships at the time any such resolution is presented to the Board of Directors for adoption), (ii) the Chairman of the Board of Directors, (iii) the President or (iv) the Secretary whenever a stockholder or group of stockholders Owning (as defined below) at least twenty-five percent (25%) in the aggregate of the capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote, and who held that amount in a net long position continuously for at least one year (the  Eligibility Criteria ), so request in writing. Business transacted at special meetings shall be confined to the purpose or purposes stated in the notice of the meeting. 
    
  In the case of clause (iv) of the immediately preceding sentence, each such written request must be signed by each stockholder making the request and delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the corporation and shall set forth (a) a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the special meeting of the stockholders, including the complete text of any resolutions to be presented at the special meeting of the stockholders with respect to such business, and the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting; (b) the date of request; (c)(i) if any stockholder making the request is a registered holder of the corporation s stock, the name, address and ownership information, as they appear on the corporation s books, of each such stockholder and (ii) if any stockholder making the request is not a registered holder of the corporation s stock, proof of satisfaction by each such stockholder of the Eligibility Criteria which shall be substantially similar to the proof specified by Rule 14a-8(b)(2)(i) or (ii) under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (the  Exchange Act ), as amended from time to time, in each case, including a written agreement to update and supplement such information upon the occurrence of any changes thereto; (d) a representation that each requesting stockholder intends to appear in person or by proxy at the special meeting of the stockholders to transact the business specified; and (e) a representation that each requesting stockholder intends to hold the shares of the corporation s stock set forth in the written request through the date of the special meeting of the stockholders; provided that, if any such requesting  
  
   1 

stockholder (x) fails to satisfy the Eligibility Criteria or to follow one of the procedural requirements described in clauses (a) through (e) of this sentence (the  Procedural Requirements ), the corporation shall not be obligated to call a special meeting unless the remaining requesting stockholders continue to satisfy the Eligibility Criteria and the Procedural Requirements or (y) fails to hold the required number of shares through the date of the special meeting (a  Non Performing Holder ), the corporation may cancel the special meeting (if previously called but not yet held) unless the remaining requesting stockholders have not failed to hold such shares through such date and continue to satisfy the Eligibility Criteria; provided, further, that the corporation may disregard future requests to call special meetings from each Non Performing Holder for the following two calendar years. Following receipt by the Secretary of a written request of stockholders that complies with the requirements set forth in this Section 2 (a  Special Meeting Request ), the Secretary shall call a special meeting of the stockholders. 
    
  (b)    Revocation of Special Meeting Request  .  A stockholder may revoke a Special Meeting Request at any time by written revocation. Following such revocation, the Board of Directors, in its discretion, may cancel the special meeting unless, in the case of a Special Meeting Request, any remaining requesting stockholders continue to satisfy the Eligibility Criteria and the Procedural Requirements. For purposes of this Section 2, written revocation shall mean delivering a notice of revocation to the Secretary. 
    
  (c)    Limitations  .  The Secretary shall not call a special meeting in response to a Special Meeting Request if (i) an identical or substantially similar item (as determined by the Board of Directors, a  Similar Item ) is included or will be included in the corporation s notice of meeting as an item of business to be brought before a meeting of stockholders that will be held not later than ninety (90) days after the delivery date of the Special Meeting Request (the  Delivery Date  (ii) the Delivery Date is during the period commencing ninety (90) days prior to the date of the next annual meeting of stockholders and ending on the date of the next annual meeting of stockholders; (iii) a Similar Item was presented at any meeting of stockholders held within one hundred and eighty (180) days prior to the Delivery Date; (iv) the Special Meeting Request relates to an item of business that is not a proper subject for stockholder action under applicable law; or (v) such Special Meeting Request was made in a manner that involved a violation of Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act or other applicable law. For purposes of this Section 2, the election of directors shall be deemed to be a Similar Item with respect to all items of business involving the election or removal of directors. 
    
  For the purposes of this Section 2, a stockholder or beneficial owner is deemed to  Own  only those outstanding shares of capital stock as to which the person possesses both (A) the full voting and investment rights pertaining to the shares and (B) the full economic interest in (including the opportunity for profit and risk of loss on) such shares, except that the number of shares calculated in accordance with clauses (A) and (B) shall not include any shares (1) sold by such person in any transaction that has not been settled or closed, (2) borrowed by the person for any purposes or purchased by the person pursuant to an agreement to resell, or (3) subject to any option, warrant, forward contract, swap, contract of sale, or other derivative or similar agreement entered into by the person, whether the instrument or agreement is to be settled with shares or with cash based on the notional amount or value of outstanding shares of capital stock, if the  
  
   2 

instrument or agreement has, or is intended to have, or if exercised would have, the purpose or effect of (x) reducing in any manner, to any extent or at any time in the future, the person s full right to vote or direct the voting of the shares, and/or (y) hedging, offsetting, or altering to any degree any gain or loss arising from the full economic ownership of the shares by the person.  The terms  Owned,   Owning  and other variations of the word  Own,  when used with respect to a stockholder or beneficial owner, have correlative meanings.  For purposes of clauses (1) through (3), the term  person  includes its affiliates.  A stockholder or beneficial owner  Owns  shares held in the name of a nominee or other intermediary so long as the person retains the right to instruct how the shares are voted with respect to the election of directors and the right to direct the disposition thereof and possesses the full economic interest in the shares.  The person s Ownership of shares is deemed to continue during any period in which the person has delegated any voting power by means of a proxy, power of attorney, or other instrument or arrangement that is revocable at any time by the stockholder. 
    
  Section 3.    Place of Meetings  .  All meetings of stockholders shall be held at the principal office of the corporation unless a different place is fixed by the person or persons calling the meeting and stated in the notice of the meeting. 
    
  Section 4.    Notices of Meetings and Adjourned Meetings  .  A written notice of each annual or special meeting of the stockholders stating the place, date, and hour thereof, shall be given by the Secretary (or the person or persons calling the meeting), not less than 10 nor more than 60 days before the date of the meeting, to each stockholder entitled to such notice, and, if mailed, shall be given by depositing it postage prepaid in the United States mail, directed to each stockholder at his or her address as it appears on the records of the corporation.  Notices of all special meetings of stockholders shall state the purpose or purposes for which the meeting is called.  An affidavit of the Secretary, Assistant Secretary, or transfer agent of the corporation that the notice has been given shall, in the absence of fraud, be prima facie evidence of the facts stated therein. No notice need be given to any person with whom communication is unlawful or to any person who has waived such notice in the manner permitted by Section 229 of the Delaware General Corporation Law (the  DGCL ). When a meeting is adjourned to another time and place, notice need not be given of the adjourned meeting if the time and place thereof are announced at the meeting at which the adjournment is taken except that, if the adjournment is for more than 30 days or if, after the adjournment, a new record date is fixed for the adjourned meeting, a notice of the adjourned meeting shall be given as provided in this Section 4. 
    
  Section 5.    Quorum  .  At any meeting of the stockholders, a quorum for the transaction of business shall consist of one or more individuals appearing in person or represented by proxy and owning or representing a majority of the shares of the corporation then outstanding and entitled to vote thereat, unless or except to the extent that the presence of a larger number may be required by law (including as required from time to time by the DGCL or the Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation (the  Certificate of Incorporation )).  Where a separate vote by a class or classes is required, a majority of the shares of such class or classes then outstanding and entitled to vote present in person or by proxy shall constitute a quorum entitled to take action with respect to that vote on that matter.  If a quorum shall fail to attend any meeting, the  
  
   3 

chairman of the meeting or the holders of a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote thereat who are present, in person or by proxy, may adjourn the meeting to another place, date, or time.  
    
  Section 6.    Organization  .  Such person as the Board of Directors may have designated or, in the absence of such a person, the President of the corporation or, in his or her absence, such person as may be chosen by the holders of a majority of the shares entitled to vote thereat who are present, in person or by proxy, shall call to order any meeting of the stockholders and act as chairman of the meeting. In the absence of the Secretary of the corporation, the secretary of the meeting shall be such person as the chairman appoints. 
    
  Section 7.    Conduct of Business  .  The chairman of any meeting of stockholders shall determine the order of business and the procedure at the meeting, including such regulation of the manner of voting and the conduct of discussion as seems to him or her in order. 
    
  Section 8.    Voting  .  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation and subject to the provisions of Section 6 of Article IV hereof, each stockholder shall have one vote for each share of stock entitled to vote held by him or her of record according to the records of the corporation. Persons holding stock in a fiduciary capacity shall be entitled to vote the shares so held.  Persons whose stock is pledged shall be entitled to vote unless the pledgor in a transfer on the books of the corporation has expressly empowered the pledgee to vote the pledged shares, in which case only the pledgee or his or her proxy shall be entitled to vote.  If shares stand of record in the names of two or more persons or if two or more persons have the same fiduciary relationship respecting the shares then, unless the Secretary is given written notice to the contrary and is furnished with a copy of the instrument or order appointing them or creating the relationship wherein it is so provided to the contrary:  (a) if only one votes, his or her act binds all; (b) if more than one votes, the act of the majority so voting binds all; and (c) if more than one votes and the vote is evenly split, the effect shall be as provided by law. 
    
  Section 9.    Proxies  .  Each stockholder entitled to vote at a meeting of stockholders  may authorize another person or any group of persons to act for him or her by proxy, but no such proxy shall be voted or acted upon after three years from its date, unless the proxy provides for a longer period.  
    
  Section 10.    Action at Meeting  .   
    
  (a)    Voting - General  .  When a quorum is present at any meeting, action of the stockholders on any matter properly brought before such meeting, other than the election of directors, shall require, and may be effected by, the affirmative vote of the holders of a majority in interest of the stock present or represented by proxy and entitled to vote on the subject matter, except where a different vote is expressly required by law, the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws, in which case such express provision shall govern and control.  
    
  (b)    Voting - Directors  .  Except as provided in Section 7 of Article II of these Bylaws, each director shall be elected by the affirmative vote of the Majority of the Votes Cast (as defined herein) with respect to that director at any meeting for the election of directors at which a  
  
   4 

quorum is present, provided that if as of a date that is five business days in advance of the date the corporation files its definitive proxy statement (regardless of whether or not thereafter revised or supplemented) with the Securities and Exchange Commission ( SEC ) the number of nominees exceeds the number of directors to be elected, the directors shall be elected by the vote of a plurality of the votes cast at such meeting. If the Certificate of Incorporation so provides, no ballot shall be required for the election of directors unless requested by a stockholder present or represented at the meeting and entitled to vote in the election. For purposes of this paragraph (b), the term  Majority of the Votes Cast  means, with respect to a nominee for director, that the number of shares voted  for  the election of that nominee must exceed the number of votes cast  against  that nominee. 
    
  Section 11.    Stockholder Lists  .  The officer who has charge of the stock ledger of the corporation shall prepare and make available, at least 10 days before every meeting of stockholders, a complete list of stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, arranged in alphabetical order, and showing the address of each stockholder and the number of shares registered in the name of each stockholder.  Such list shall be open to the examination of any stockholder for any purpose germane to the meeting for a period of at least 10 days prior to the meeting during ordinary business hours, at the principal place of business of the corporation.  Such list shall also be produced and kept at the time and place of the meeting during the whole time thereof, and may be inspected by any stockholder who is present.  The stock ledger shall be the only evidence as to who are the stockholders entitled to examine the stock ledger, the list required by this section or the books of the corporation, or to vote in person or by proxy at any meeting of stockholders. 

Section 12.      Submission of Information by Director Nominees  .  (a)  To be eligible to be a nominee for election or re-election as a director of the corporation, a person must deliver to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the corporation the following information: 
  (i)  a written representation and agreement, which shall be signed by such person and shall represent and agree that such person:  (A) consents to serving as a director if elected and (if applicable) to being named in the corporation s proxy statement and form of proxy as a nominee; (B) is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with, and has not given any commitment or assurance to, any person or entity: (1) as to how the person, if elected as a director, will act or vote on any issue or question that has not been disclosed to the corporation,   or (2) that could limit or interfere with the person s ability to comply, if elected as a director, with such person s fiduciary duties under applicable law; (C)   is not and will not become a party to any agreement, arrangement or understanding with any person or entity other than the corporation with respect to any direct or indirect compensation, reimbursement or indemnification in connection with service or action as a director that has not been disclosed to the corporation; and (D) if elected as a director, will comply with all of the corporation s corporate governance, conflict of interest, confidentiality, and stock ownership and trading policies and guidelines, and any other corporation policies and guidelines applicable to directors (which will be provided to such person promptly following a request therefor); and 
  
   5 

(ii)  all completed and signed questionnaires required of the corporation s directors (which will be provided to such person promptly following a request therefor). 
  (b)  A nominee for election or re-election as a director of the corporation shall also provide to the corporation such other information as it may reasonably request.  The corporation may request such additional information as necessary to permit the corporation to determine the eligibility of such person to serve as a director of the corporation, including information relevant to a determination whether such person can be considered an independent director. 
  (c)    N  otwithstanding any other provision of these Bylaws, if a stockholder has submitted notice of an intent to nominate a candidate for election or re-election as a director pursuant to Section 13 of this Article I or Section 14 of this Article I, the questionnaires described in Section 12(a)(ii) above and the additional information described in clause (b) of this Section 12 above shall be considered timely if provided to the corporation promptly upon request by the corporation, but in any event within the time period for delivery of a stockholder s notice pursuant to Section 13 of this Article I or Section 14 of this Article I, respectively, and all information provided pursuant to this Section 12 shall be deemed part of the stockholder s notice submitted pursuant to Section 13 of this Article I or Section 14 of this Article I, respectively. 
  Section 13.    Notice of Stockholder Business; Nominations  . 
  (a)      Annual Meeting  . 
  (i)  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors and the proposal of business other than nominations to be considered by the stockholders may be made at an annual meeting of stockholders only (A) pursuant to the corporation s notice of meeting (or any supplement thereto), (B) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors (C) by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 13(a) is delivered to the Secretary of the corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and who complies with the notice procedures set forth in this Section 13(a) or (D) by an Eligible Stockholder (as defined in clause (c) of Section 14 of this Article I) pursuant to the requirements of Section 14 of this Article I.  For the avoidance of doubt, the foregoing clauses (C) and (D) shall be the exclusive means for a stockholder to make nominations or propose other business at an annual meeting of stockholders (other than a proposal included in the corporation s proxy statement pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 14a 8 under the Exchange Act). 
  (ii)  For nominations or other business to be properly brought before an annual meeting by a stockholder pursuant to clause (C) of the foregoing paragraph, the stockholder must have given timely notice thereof in writing to the Secretary of the corporation and, in the case of business other than nominations, such business must be a proper subject for stockholder action.  To be timely, a stockholder s notice must be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the corporation not later than the close of business (as defined in clause (c)(ii) of this Section 13) on the 90th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to the first anniversary of the preceding year s annual meeting; provided, however, that in the event that the date of the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or more than 60 days after such  
  
   6 

anniversary date, or if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, notice by the stockholder to be timely must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the date on which public announcement (as defined in clause (c)(ii) of this Section 13) of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation.  In no event shall an adjournment or recess of an annual meeting, or a postponement of an annual meeting for which notice of the meeting has already been given to stockholders or with respect to which there has been a public announcement of the date of the meeting, commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder s notice as described above.  Such stockholder s notice shall set forth: 
  (A)  as to each person whom the stockholder proposes to nominate for election or re-election as a director (1) all information relating to such person that is required to be disclosed in solicitations of proxies for election of directors in an election contest, or is otherwise required, in each case pursuant to and in accordance with Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, and (2) the information required to be submitted by nominees pursuant to clause (a)(i) of Section 12 of this Article I above;   
  (B)  as to any other business that the stockholder proposes to bring before the meeting, a brief description of the business desired to be brought before the meeting, the text of the proposal or business (including the text of any resolutions proposed for consideration and in the event that such business includes a proposal to amend these Bylaws, the language of the proposed amendment), the reasons for conducting such business at the meeting and any substantial interest (within the meaning of Item 5 of Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act) in such business of such stockholder and the beneficial owner (within the meaning of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act), if any, on whose behalf the proposal is made; 
  (C)  as to the stockholder giving the notice and the beneficial owner, if any, on whose behalf the nomination is made or the other business is proposed: 
  (1)  the name and address of such stockholder, as they appear on the corporation s books, and the name and address of such beneficial owner, 
  (2)  the class or series and number of shares of stock of the corporation which are owned of record by such stockholder and such beneficial owner as of the date of the notice, and a representation that the stockholder will notify the corporation   in writing within five business days after the record date for such meeting   of the class or series and number of shares of stock of the corporation owned of record by the stockholder and such beneficial owner as of the record date for the meeting, and 
  (3)  a representation that the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) intends to appear at the meeting to make such nomination or propose such business; 
  (D)  as to the stockholder giving the notice or, if the notice is given on behalf of a beneficial owner on whose behalf the nomination is made or the other business is  
  
   7 

proposed, as to such beneficial owner, and if such stockholder or beneficial owner is an entity, as to each director, executive, managing member or control person of such entity (any such individual or control person, a  Control Person ): 
  (1)  the class or series and number of shares of stock of the corporation which are beneficially owned   (as defined in clause (c)(ii) of this Section 13)   by such stockholder or beneficial owner and by any Control Person as of the date of the notice, and a representation that the stockholder will notify the corporation   in writing within five business days after the record date for such meeting   of the class or series and number of shares of stock of the corporation beneficially owned by such stockholder or beneficial owner and by any Control Person as of the record date for the meeting, 
  (2)  a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding with respect to the nomination or other business between or among such stockholder, beneficial owner or Control Person and any other person, including without limitation any agreements   that would be required to be disclosed pursuant to Item 5 or Item 6 of Exchange Act Schedule 13D (regardless of whether the requirement to file a Schedule 13D is applicable)   and a representation that the stockholder will notify the corporation in writing within five business days after the record date for such meeting of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting, 
  (3)  a description of any agreement, arrangement or understanding (including without limitation any derivative or short positions, profit interests, options, hedging transactions, and borrowed or loaned shares) that has been entered into as of the date of the stockholder s notice by, or on behalf of, such stockholder, beneficial owner or Control Person, the effect or intent of which is to mitigate loss, manage risk or benefit from changes in the share price of any class or series of the corporation s stock, or maintain, increase or decrease the voting power of the stockholder, beneficial owner or Control Person with respect to securities of the corporation, and a representation that the stockholder will notify the corporation in writing within five business days after the record date for such meeting of any such agreement, arrangement or understanding in effect as of the record date for the meeting, 
  (4)  a representation whether the stockholder or the beneficial owner, if any, will engage in a solicitation, within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 14a-1(l), with respect to the nomination or other business and, if so, the name of each participant (as defined in Item 4 of Schedule 14A under the Exchange Act) in such solicitation and whether such person intends or is part of a group which intends to deliver a proxy statement and/or form of proxy to holders of at least fifty percent (50%) of the corporation s stock entitled to vote generally in the election of directors in the case of a nomination and to holders of at least the percentage of the corporation s stock required to approve or adopt the business to be proposed, in the case of a proposal. 
  (iii)  Notwithstanding anything in clause (ii) of this Section 13(a) or clause (b) of this Section 13 to the contrary, if the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at any meeting of stockholders is different from the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to notice of the meeting, a stockholder s notice required by this Section 13 shall set forth  
  
   8 

a representation that the stockholder will notify the corporation in writing within five business days after the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting, or by the opening of business on the date of the meeting (whichever is earlier), of the information required under clauses (ii)(C)(2) and (ii)(D)(1) (3) of this Section 13(a), and such information when provided to the corporation shall be current as of the record date for determining the stockholders entitled to vote at the meeting. 
  (iv)  This Section 13(a) shall not apply to a proposal proposed to be made by a stockholder if the stockholder has notified the corporation of his or her intention to present the proposal at an annual or special meeting only pursuant to and in compliance with Rule 14a 8 under the Exchange Act and such proposal has been included in a proxy statement that has been prepared by the corporation to solicit proxies for such meeting. 
  (v)  Notwithstanding anything in this Section 13(a) to the contrary, in the event that the number of directors to be elected to the Board of Directors at an annual meeting is increased and there is no public announcement by the corporation naming all of the nominees for directors or specifying the size of the increased Board of Directors made by the corporation at least 10 days prior to the last day a stockholder may deliver a notice in accordance with clause (ii) of this Section 13(a), a stockholder s notice required by this Section 13(a) shall also be considered timely, but only with respect to nominees for any new positions created by such increase, if it shall be delivered to the Secretary of the corporation at the principal executive office of the corporation not later than the close of business on the 10th day following the day on which such public announcement is first made by the corporation. 
  (b)      Special Meeting  .  Only such business shall be conducted at a special meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting pursuant to the corporation s notice of meeting.  Nominations of persons for election to the Board of Directors may be made at a special meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected pursuant to the corporation s notice of meeting (i) by or at the direction of the Board of Directors, (ii) provided that one or more directors are to be elected at such meeting, by any stockholder of the corporation who is a stockholder of record at the time the notice provided for in this Section 13(b) is delivered to the Secretary of the corporation, who is entitled to vote at the meeting and upon such election and who delivers a written notice setting forth the information required by clause (a) of this Section 13 and provides the additional information required by clause (a) of Section 12 of this Article I above, or (iii) in the case of a stockholder-requested special meeting, by any stockholder of the corporation pursuant to clause (a)(iv) of Section 2 of this Article I.  In the event the corporation calls a special meeting of stockholders for the purpose of electing one or more directors to the Board of Directors, any stockholder entitled to vote in such election of directors may nominate a person or persons (as the case may be) for election to such position(s) as specified in the corporation s notice of meeting, if the notice required by this Section 13(b) shall be delivered to the Secretary at the principal executive office of the corporation not earlier than the close of business on the 120th day prior to such special meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 90th day prior to such special meeting or the 10th day following the date on which public announcement of the date of the special meeting and of the nominees proposed by the Board of Directors to be elected at such meeting is first made by the corporation.   
  
   9 

In no event shall an adjournment, recess or postponement of a special meeting commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a stockholder s notice as described above. 
  (c)      General  . 
  (i)  Except as otherwise required by law, only such persons who are nominated in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13 shall be eligible to be elected or re-elected at any meeting of stockholders of the corporation to serve as directors and only such other business shall be conducted at a meeting of stockholders as shall have been brought before the meeting in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13.  Except as otherwise required by law, each of the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting shall have the power to determine whether a nomination or any other business proposed to be brought before the meeting was made or proposed, as the case may be, in accordance with the procedures set forth in this Section 13.  If any proposed nomination or other business is not in compliance with this Section 13, then except as otherwise required by law, the chairman of the meeting shall have the power to declare that such nomination shall be disregarded or that such other business shall not be transacted.  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 13, unless otherwise required by law, or otherwise determined by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, if the stockholder does not provide the information required under Section 12 of this Article I above or clauses (a)(ii)(C)(2) and (a)(ii)(D)(1) (3) of this Section 13 to the corporation within the time frames specified herein, or if the stockholder (or a qualified representative of the stockholder) does not appear at the annual or special meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present a nomination or other business, such nomination shall be disregarded and such other business shall not be transacted, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation.  For purposes of these Bylaws, to be considered a qualified representative of a stockholder, a person must be a duly authorized officer, manager or partner of such stockholder or authorized by a writing executed by such stockholder (or a reliable reproduction or electronic transmission of the writing) delivered to the corporation prior to the making of such nomination or proposal at such meeting stating that such person is authorized to act for such stockholder as proxy at the meeting of stockholders. 
    
  (ii)  For purposes of this Section 13, the  close of business  shall mean 6:00 p.m. local time at the principal executive office of the corporation on any calendar day, whether or not the day is a business day, and a  public announcement  shall mean disclosure in a press release reported by the Dow Jones News Service, Associated Press or a comparable national news service or in a document publicly filed by the corporation with the SEC pursuant to Sections 13, 14 or 15(d) of the Exchange Act.  For purposes of clause (a)(ii)(D)(1) of this Section 13, shares shall be treated as  beneficially owned  by a person if the person beneficially owns such shares, directly or indirectly, for purposes of Section 13(d) of the Exchange Act and Regulations 13D and 13G thereunder or has or shares pursuant to any agreement, arrangement or understanding (whether or not in writing):  (A) the right to acquire such shares (whether such right is exercisable immediately or only after the passage of time or the fulfillment of a condition or both), (B) the right to vote such shares, alone or in concert with others and/or (C) investment  
  
   10 

power with respect to such shares, including the power to dispose of, or to direct the disposition of, such shares. 
    
  Section 14.  Proxy Access for Director Nominations.  
    
  (a)  Subject to the terms and conditions of these Bylaws, in connection with an annual meeting of stockholders at which directors are to be elected, the corporation (i) shall include in its proxy statement and on its form of proxy the names of, and (ii) shall include in its proxy statement the  Additional Information  (as defined below) relating to, a number of nominees specified pursuant to clause (b) of this Section 14 below(the  Authorized Number ) for election to the Board of Directors submitted pursuant to this Section 14 (each, a  Stockholder Nominee ), if:  
    
  (i)  the Stockholder Nominee satisfies the eligibility requirements in this Section 14;  
    
  (ii)  the Stockholder Nominee is identified in a timely notice (the  Stockholder Notice ) that satisfies this Section 14 and is delivered by a stockholder that qualifies as, or is acting on behalf of, an Eligible Stockholder (as defined below);  
    
  (iii)  the Eligible Stockholder satisfies the requirements in this Section 14 and expressly elects at the time of the delivery of the Stockholder Notice to have the Stockholder Nominee included in the corporation s proxy materials; and  
    
  (iv)  the additional requirements of these Bylaws are met.   
    
  (b)  The maximum number of Stockholder Nominees appearing in the corporation s proxy materials with respect to an annual meeting of stockholders (the  Authorized Number ) shall not exceed the greater of (i) two or (ii) twenty percent (20%) of the number of directors in office as of the last day on which a Stockholder Notice may be delivered pursuant to this Section 14 with respect to the annual meeting, or if such amount is not a whole number, the closest whole number (rounding down) below twenty percent (20%); provided that the Authorized Number shall be reduced (i) by any Stockholder Nominee whose name was submitted for inclusion in the corporation s proxy materials pursuant to this Section 14 but whom the Board of Directors decides to nominate as a Board of Directors nominee, and (ii) by any nominees who were previously elected to the Board of Directors as Stockholder Nominees at any of the preceding two annual meetings and who are nominated for election at the annual meeting by the Board of Directors as a Board of Directors nominee.  In the event that one or more vacancies for any reason occurs after the date of the Stockholder Notice but before the annual meeting and the Board of Directors resolves to reduce the size of the Board of Directors in connection therewith, the Authorized Number shall be calculated based on the number of directors in office as so reduced. 
    
  (c)  To qualify as an  Eligible Stockholder,  a stockholder or a group as described in this Section 14(c) must:  
  
   11 

(i)  Own and have Owned (as defined below), continuously for at least three years as of the date of the Stockholder Notice, a number of shares (as adjusted to account for any stock dividend, stock split, subdivision, combination, reclassification or recapitalization of the shares of capital stock issued, outstanding and entitled to vote generally in the election of directors (for purposes of this Section 14,  Voting Capital Stock )) that represents at least three percent (3%) of the outstanding shares of Voting Capital Stock as of the date of the Stockholder Notice (the  Required Shares  and  
    
  (ii)  thereafter continue to Own the Required Shares through such annual meeting of stockholders.   
    
  For purposes of satisfying the ownership requirements of this Section 14(c), a group of not more than twenty (20) stockholders and/or beneficial owners may aggregate the number of shares of Voting Capital Stock that each group member has individually Owned continuously for at least three years as of the date of the Stockholder Notice if all other requirements and obligations for an Eligible Stockholder set forth in this Section 14 are satisfied by and as to each stockholder or beneficial owner comprising the group whose shares are aggregated.  No shares may be attributed to more than one Eligible Stockholder, and no stockholder or beneficial owner, alone or together with any of its affiliates, may individually or as a member of a group qualify as or constitute more than one Eligible Stockholder under this Section 14.  A group of any two or more funds shall be treated as only one stockholder or beneficial owner for this purpose if they are (A) under common management and investment control or (B) under common management and funded primarily by a single employer.  For the purposes of this Section 14, the term  affiliate  or  affiliates  shall have the meanings ascribed thereto under the rules and regulations promulgated under the Exchange Act. 
    
  (d)  For purposes of this Section 14: 
    
  (i)  The terms  Own,   Owned,   Owning  and other variations of the word  Own  when used with respect to a stockholder or beneficial owner shall have the same meanings as defined in Section 2 of this Article I. 
    
  (ii)  A stockholder or beneficial owner s Ownership of shares shall be deemed to continue during any period in which the person has loaned the shares if the person has the power to recall the loaned shares on not more than five business days  notice. 
    
  (e)  For purposes of this Section 14, the  Additional Information  referred to in clause (a) of this Section 14 that the corporation will include in its proxy statement is:  
    
  (i)  the information set forth in the Schedule 14N provided with the Stockholder Notice concerning each Stockholder Nominee and the Eligible Stockholder that is required to be disclosed in the corporation s proxy statement by the applicable requirements of the Exchange Act and the rules and regulations thereunder; and  

12 

(ii)  if the Eligible Stockholder so elects, a written statement of the Eligible Stockholder (or, in the case of a group, a written statement of the group), not to exceed 500 words, in support of its Stockholder Nominee(s), which must be provided at the same time as the Stockholder Notice for inclusion in the corporation s proxy statement for the annual meeting (the  Statement ).   
    
  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 14, the corporation may omit from its proxy materials any information or Statement that it, in good faith, believes is untrue in any material respect (or omits a material fact necessary in order to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they are made, not misleading) or would violate any applicable law, rule, regulation or listing standard.  Nothing in this Section 14 shall limit the corporation s ability to solicit against and include in its proxy materials its own statements relating to any Eligible Stockholder or Stockholder Nominee.   
    
  (f)  The Stockholder Notice shall set forth all information, representations and agreements required under clause (a)(ii) of Section 13 of this Article I above, including the information required with respect to (i) any nominee for election as a director, (ii) any stockholder giving notice of an intent to nominate a candidate for election, and (iii) any stockholder, beneficial owner or other person on whose behalf the nomination is made under this Section 14.  In addition, such Stockholder Notice shall include: 
    
  (i)  a copy of the Schedule 14N that has been or concurrently is filed with the SEC under the Exchange Act;   
    
  (ii)  a written statement of the Eligible Stockholder (and in the case of a group, the written statement of each stockholder or beneficial owner whose shares are aggregated for purposes of constituting an Eligible Stockholder), which statement(s) shall also be included in the Schedule 14N filed with the SEC: (A) setting forth and certifying to the number of shares of Voting Capital Stock the Eligible Stockholder Owns and has Owned (as defined in clause (d) of this Section 14) continuously for at least three years as of the date of the Stockholder Notice, and (B) agreeing to continue to Own such shares through the annual meeting;  
    
  (iii)  the written agreement of the Eligible Stockholder (and in the case of a group, the written agreement of each stockholder or beneficial owner whose shares are aggregated for purposes of constituting an Eligible Stockholder) addressed to the corporation, setting forth the following additional agreements, representations, and warranties:   
    
  (A)  it shall provide (1) within five business days after the date of the Stockholder Notice, one or more written statements from the record holder(s) of the Required Shares and from each intermediary through which the Required Shares are or have been held, in each case during the requisite three-year holding period, specifying the number of shares that the Eligible Stockholder Owns, and has Owned continuously in compliance with this Section 14, (2) within five business days after the record date for the annual meeting both the information required under clause (a)(ii)(D)(1) of Section 13 of this Article I and notification in writing verifying the Eligible Stockholder s continuous Ownership of the Required Shares, in each case,  
  
   13 

as of such date, and (3) immediate notice to the corporation if the Eligible Stockholder ceases to own any of the Required Shares prior to the annual meeting; 
    
  (B)  it (1) acquired the Required Shares in the ordinary course of business and not with the intent to change or influence control at the corporation, and does not presently have this intent, (2) has not nominated and shall not nominate for election to the Board of Directors at the annual meeting any person other than the Stockholder Nominee(s) being nominated pursuant to this Section 14, (3) has not engaged and shall not engage in, and has not been and shall not be a participant (as defined in Item 4 of Exchange Act Schedule 14A) in, a solicitation within the meaning of Exchange Act Rule 14a-1(l), in support of the election of any individual as a director at the annual meeting other than its Stockholder Nominee or a nominee of the Board of Directors, and (4) shall not distribute to any stockholder any form of proxy for the annual meeting other than the form distributed by the corporation; and  
    
  (C)  it will (1) assume all liability stemming from any legal or regulatory violation arising out of the Eligible Stockholder s communications with the stockholders of the corporation or out of the information that the Eligible Stockholder provided to the corporation, (2) indemnify and hold harmless the corporation and each of its directors, officers and employees individually against any liability, loss or damages in connection with any threatened or pending action, suit or proceeding, whether legal, administrative or investigative, against the corporation or any of its directors, officers or employees arising out of the nomination or solicitation process pursuant to this Section 14, (3) comply with all laws, rules, regulations and listing standards applicable to its nomination or any solicitation in connection with the annual meeting, (4) file with the SEC any solicitation or other communication by or on behalf of the Eligible Stockholder relating to the corporation s annual meeting of stockholders, one or more of the corporation s directors or director nominees or any Stockholder Nominee, regardless of whether the filing is required under Exchange Act Regulation 14A, or whether any exemption from filing is available for such materials under Regulation 14A under the Exchange Act, and (5) at the request of the corporation, promptly, but in any event within five business days after such request, (or by the day prior to the day of the annual meeting, if earlier) provide to the corporation such additional information as reasonably requested by the corporation; and 
    
  (iv)  in the case of a nomination by a group, the designation by all group members of one group member that is authorized to act on behalf of all members of the group with respect to the nomination and matters related thereto, including withdrawal of the nomination and the written agreement, representation, and warranty of the Eligible Stockholder that it shall provide within five business days after the date of the Stockholder Notice, documentation reasonably satisfactory to the corporation demonstrating that the number of stockholders and/or beneficial owners within such group does not exceed twenty (20), including whether a group of funds qualifies as one stockholder or beneficial owner within the meaning of clause (c) of this Section 14. 
    
  All information provided pursuant to this Section 14(f) shall be deemed part of the Stockholder Notice for purposes of this Section 14. 

14 

(g)  To be timely under this Section 14, the Stockholder Notice must be delivered by a stockholder to the Secretary of the corporation at the principal executive office of the corporation not later than the close of business (as defined in clause (c)(ii) of Section 13 of this Article I) on the 120th day nor earlier than the close of business on the 150th day prior to the first anniversary of the date or approximate date (as stated in the corporation s proxy materials) the definitive proxy statement was first released to stockholders in connection with the preceding year s annual meeting of stockholders; provided, however, that in the event the annual meeting is more than 30 days before or after the anniversary of the previous year s annual meeting, or if no annual meeting was held in the preceding year, to be timely, the Stockholder Notice must be so delivered not earlier than the close of business on the 150th day prior to such annual meeting and not later than the close of business on the later of the 120th day prior to such annual meeting or the 10th day following the day on which public announcement (as defined in clause (c)(ii) of Section 13 of this Article I) of the date of such meeting is first made by the corporation.  In no event shall an adjournment or recess of an annual meeting, or a postponement of an annual meeting for which notice has been given or with respect to which there has been a public announcement of the date of the meeting, commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of the Stockholder Notice as described above.   
    
  (h)  Within the time period for delivery of the Stockholder Notice, for each Stockholder Nominee, all written and signed representations and agreements and all completed and signed questionnaires required pursuant to clause (a) of Section 12 of this Article I, including consent to being named in the corporation s proxy statement and form of proxy as a nominee, shall be delivered to the Secretary of the corporation at the principal executive office of the corporation.  The Stockholder Nominee must promptly, but in any event within five business days after such request, provide to the corporation such other information as it may reasonably request.  The corporation may request such additional information as necessary to permit the Board of Directors to determine if each Stockholder Nominee satisfies the requirements of this Section 14.  
    
  (i)  In the event that any information or communications provided by the Eligible Stockholder or any Stockholder Nominees to the corporation or its stockholders is not, when provided, or thereafter ceases to be, true, correct and complete in all material respects (including omitting a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which they were made, not misleading), such Eligible Stockholder or Stockholder Nominee, as the case may be, shall promptly notify the Secretary and provide the information that is required to make such information or communication true, correct, complete and not misleading; it being understood that providing any such notification shall not be deemed to cure any defect or limit the corporation s right to omit a Stockholder Nominee from its proxy materials as provided in this Section 14.  
    
  (j)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary contained in this Section 14, the corporation may omit from its proxy materials any Stockholder Nominee, and such nomination shall be disregarded and no vote on such Stockholder Nominee shall occur, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of such vote may have been received by the corporation, if:  

15 

(i)  the Eligible Stockholder or Stockholder Nominee breaches any of its agreements, representations, or warranties set forth in the Stockholder Notice (or otherwise submitted pursuant to this Section 14), any of the information in the Stockholder Notice (or otherwise submitted pursuant to this Section 14) was not, when provided, true, correct and complete, or the Eligible Stockholder or applicable Stockholder Nominee otherwise fails to comply with its obligations pursuant to these Bylaws, including, but not limited to, its obligations under this Section 14; 
    
  (ii)  the Stockholder Nominee (A) is not independent under any applicable listing standards, any applicable rules of the SEC, and any publicly disclosed standards used by the Board of Directors in determining and disclosing the independence of the corporation s directors, (B) is or has been, within the past three years, an officer or director of a competitor, as defined in Section 8 of the Clayton Antitrust Act of 1914, as amended, (C) is a named subject of a pending criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations and other minor offenses) or has been convicted in a criminal proceeding (excluding traffic violations and other minor offenses) within the past 10 years or (D) is subject to any order of the type specified in Rule 506(d) of Regulation D promulgated under the Securities Act of 1933, as amended;  
    
  (iii)  the corporation has received a notice (whether or not subsequently withdrawn) that a stockholder intends to nominate any candidate for election to the Board of Directors pursuant to the advance notice requirements for stockholder nominees for director in clause (a)(i)(C) of Section 13 of this Article I; or 
    
  (iv)  the election of the Stockholder Nominee to the Board of Directors would cause the corporation to violate the Certificate of Incorporation of the corporation, these Bylaws, any applicable law, rule, regulation or listing standard.  
    
  (k)  An Eligible Stockholder submitting more than one Stockholder Nominee for inclusion in the corporation s proxy materials pursuant to this Section 14 shall rank such Stockholder Nominees based on the order that the Eligible Stockholder desires such Stockholder Nominees to be selected for inclusion in the corporation s proxy materials and include such assigned rank in its Stockholder Notice submitted to the corporation. In the event that the number of Stockholder Nominees submitted by Eligible Stockholders pursuant to this Section 14 exceeds the Authorized Number, the Stockholder Nominees to be included in the corporation s proxy materials shall be determined in accordance with the following provisions:  one Stockholder Nominee who satisfies the eligibility requirements in this Section 14 shall be selected from each Eligible Stockholder for inclusion in the corporation s proxy materials until the Authorized Number is reached, going in order of the amount (largest to smallest) of shares of the corporation each Eligible Stockholder disclosed as Owned in its Stockholder Notice submitted to the corporation and going in the order of rank (highest to lowest) assigned to each Stockholder Nominee by such Eligible Stockholder.  If the Authorized Number is not reached after one Stockholder Nominee who satisfies the eligibility requirements in this Section 14 has been selected from each Eligible Stockholder, this selection process shall continue as many times as necessary, following the same order each time, until the Authorized Number is reached.  Following such determination, if any Stockholder Nominee who satisfies the eligibility  
  
   16 

requirements in this Section 14 thereafter is nominated by the Board of Directors, thereafter is not included in the corporation s proxy materials or thereafter is not submitted for director election for any reason (including the Eligible Stockholder s or Stockholder Nominee s failure to comply with this Section 14), no other nominee or nominees shall be included in the corporation s proxy materials or otherwise submitted for election as a director at the applicable annual meeting in substitution for such Stockholder Nominee. 
    
  (l)  Any Stockholder Nominee who is included in the corporation s proxy materials for a particular annual meeting of stockholders but withdraws from or becomes ineligible or unavailable for election at the annual meeting for any reason, including for the failure to comply with any provision of these Bylaws (provided that in no event shall any such withdrawal, ineligibility or unavailability commence a new time period (or extend any time period) for the giving of a Stockholder Notice), shall be ineligible to be a Stockholder Nominee pursuant to this Section 14 for the next two annual meetings. 
    
  (m)  Notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Section 14, unless otherwise required by law or otherwise determined by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, the Board of Directors or the chairman of the meeting, if the stockholder delivering the Stockholder Notice (or a qualified representative of the stockholder, as defined in clause (c)(i) of Section 13 of this Article I) does not appear at the annual meeting of stockholders of the corporation to present its Stockholder Nominee or Stockholder Nominees, such nomination or nominations shall be disregarded, notwithstanding that proxies in respect of the election of the Stockholder Nominee or Stockholder Nominees may have been received by the corporation.  Without limiting the Board of Directors  power and authority to interpret any other provisions of these Bylaws, the Board of Directors (and any other person or body authorized by the Board of Directors) shall have the power and authority to interpret this Section 14 and to make any and all determinations necessary or advisable to apply this Section 14 to any persons, facts or circumstances, in each case, acting in good faith.  This Section 14 shall be the exclusive method for stockholders to include nominees for director election in the corporation s proxy materials. 
    
  ARTICLE II 
    
  Directors 
    
  Section 1.    Powers  .  The business and affairs of the corporation shall be managed by or under the direction of the Board of Directors, which may exercise all such powers of the corporation and do all such lawful acts and things as are not by law or these Bylaws directed or required to be exercised or done by the stockholders. 
    
  Section 2.    Number of Directors  .    The Board of Directors shall consist of one or more members.  The number of directors shall be no less than six (6) and no more than nine (9), the number thereof to be fixed from time to time by resolution of the Board of Directors.   
    
  Section 3.    Election and Tenure  .  Each director shall be elected by the vote specified in clause (b) of Section 10 of Article I or as provided in Section 7 of this Article II.  Each director  
  
   17 

shall serve until his or her successor is elected and qualified, or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. 
    
  Section 4.    Qualification  .  No director need be a stockholder. 
    
  Section 5.    Removal  .  Any director or the entire Board of Directors may be removed with or without cause, by the holders of a majority of the shares then entitled to vote at an election of the directors except as otherwise provided by law. 
    
  Section 6.    Resignation  .  Any director of the corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, to the President, or to the Secretary, and any member of a committee may resign therefrom at any time by giving notice as aforesaid or to the chairman or secretary of such committee.  Any such resignation shall take effect at the time (or upon the happening of an event) specified therein, or, if the time (or event) be not specified, upon receipt thereof; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. 
    
  Section 7.    Vacancies and Newly Created Directorships  .  Vacancies and newly created directorships resulting from any increase in the authorized number of directors may be filled (a) by the stockholders at any meeting, (b) by a majority of the directors then in office, although less than a quorum, or (c) by a sole remaining director.  Whenever the holders of any class or classes of stock or series thereof are entitled to elect one or more Directors by the Certificate of Incorporation, vacancies and newly created directorships of such class or classes or series may be filled by a majority of the Directors elected by such class, classes or series then in office or by the sole remaining director so elected.  When one or more directors shall resign from the Board of Directors, effective at a future date, a majority of directors who are entitled to act on the filling of such vacancy or vacancies and who are then in office, including those who have so resigned, shall have power to fill such vacancy or vacancies by vote to take effect when such resignation or resignations shall become effective. 
    
  Section 8.    Annual Meeting  .  The first meeting of each newly elected Board of Directors may be held without notice immediately after an annual meeting of stockholders (or a special meeting of stockholders held in lieu of an annual meeting) at the same place as that at which such meeting of stockholders was held; or such first meeting may be held at such place and time as shall be fixed by the consent in writing of all the directors, or may be called in the manner hereinafter provided with respect to the call of special meetings. 
    
  Section 9.    Regular Meetings  .  Regular meetings of the directors may be held at such times and places as shall from time to time be fixed by resolution of the Board of Directors, and no notice need be given of regular meetings held at times and places so fixed, provided, however, that any resolution relating to the holding of regular meetings shall remain in force only until the next annual meeting of stockholders and that, if at any meeting of Directors at which a resolution is adopted fixing the times or place or places for any regular meetings any Director is absent, no meeting shall be held pursuant to such resolution without notice to or waiver by such absent Director pursuant to Section 11 of this Article II. 
  
   18 

Section 10.    Special Meetings  .  Special meetings of the directors may be called by the Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, the President, or by at least one- third of the directors then in office (rounded up to the nearest whole number), and shall be held at the place and on the date and hour designated in the call thereof. 
    
  Section 11.    Notices  .  Notices of any special meeting of the directors shall be given to each director by the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary (a) by mailing to him or her, postage prepaid, and addressed to him or her at his or her address as registered on the books of the corporation, or if not so registered at his or her last known home or business address, a written notice of such meeting at least 4 days before the meeting, (b) by delivering such notice by hand or by telegram, telecopy, telex, facsimile or electronic transmission (including without limitation e-mail) to him or her at least 48 hours before the meeting, or (c) by giving such notice in person or by telephone at least 48 hours in advance of the meeting.  Any notice given personally or by telephone, telegram, telecopy, telex, facsimile or electronic transmission (including without limitation e-mail) may be communicated either to the director or to a person at the office of the director who the person giving the notice has reason to believe will promptly communicate it to the director.  In the absence of the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, such notice may be given by the officer or one of the directors calling the meeting. Notice need not be given to any director who has waived notice in accordance with Section 229 of the DGCL. A notice or waiver of notice of a meeting of the directors need not specify the business to be transacted at or the purpose of the meeting. 
    
  Section 12.    Quorum  .  At any meeting of the directors, a majority of the authorized number of directors shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business. If a quorum shall not be present at any meeting of the Board of Directors, a majority of those present (or, if not more than two directors are present, any director present) may adjourn the meeting from time to time to another place, date or time, without notice other than announcement at the meeting prior to adjournment, until a quorum shall be present. 
    
  Section 13.    Participation in Meetings by Conference Telephone  .  One or more members of the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, may participate in a meeting of such Board of Directors or committee by means of conference telephone or other communications equipment by means of which all persons participating in the meeting can hear each other, and participation in a meeting pursuant to this Section 13 shall constitute presence in person at such meeting. 
    
  Section 14.    Conduct of Business; Action by Written Consent  .  At any meeting of the Board of Directors at which a quorum is present, business shall be transacted in such order and manner as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine, and all matters shall be determined by the vote of a majority of the directors present, except as otherwise provided in these Bylaws or required by law.  Without limiting the manner by which a consent of directors may be given under Section 141(f) of the DGCL, action may be taken by the Board of Directors, or any committee thereof, without a meeting if all members of the Board of Directors or committee, as the case may be, consent thereto in writing, and the writing or writings are filed with the records of proceedings of the Board of Directors or committee. 
  
   19 

Section 15.    Place of Meetings  .  The Board of Directors may hold its meetings, and have an office or offices, within or without the State of Delaware. 
    
  Section 16.    Compensation  .  The Board of Directors shall have the authority to fix stated salaries for directors for their service in such capacity and to provide for payment of a fixed sum and expenses of attendance, if any, for attendance at each regular or special meeting of the Board of Directors.  The Board of Directors shall also have the authority to provide for payment of a fixed sum and expenses of attendance, if any, payable to members of committees for attending committee meetings.  Nothing herein contained shall preclude any director from serving the corporation in any other capacity and receiving compensation for such services. 
    
  Section 17.    Committees  .  (a)  The Board of Directors, by resolution passed by a majority of the number of directors required at the time to constitute a full Board of Directors as fixed in or determined pursuant to these Bylaws as then in effect, may from time to time designate one or more committees, each committee to consist of one or more of the directors of the corporation.  The Board of Directors may designate one or more directors as alternate members of any committee, who may replace any absent or disqualified member at any meeting of the committee.  In the absence or disqualification of a member of a committee, the member or members thereof present at any meeting and not disqualified from voting, whether or not he or she or they constitute a quorum, may unanimously appoint another member of the Board of Directors to act at the meeting in the place of any such absent or disqualified member.  Any such committee, to the extent provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, shall have and may exercise all the powers and authority of the Board of Directors in the management of the business and affairs of the corporation, and may authorize the seal of the corporation to be affixed to all papers which may require it; but no such committee shall have such power or authority in reference to amending the Certificate of Incorporation (except that a committee may, to the extent authorized in the resolution or resolutions providing for the issuance of shares of stock adopted by the Board of Directors as provided in Subsection (a) of Section 151 of the DGCL, fix the designations and any preferences or rights of such shares relating to dividends, redemption, dissolution, any distribution of assets of the corporation or conversion into, or the exchange of such shares for, shares of any other class or classes or any other series of the same or any other class or classes of stock of the corporation or fix the number of shares in a series of stock or authorize the increase or decrease in the shares of any series), adopting an agreement of merger or consolidation under Sections 251, 252, 254, 255, 256, 257, 258, 263, or 264 of the DGCL, recommending to the stockholders the sale, lease or exchange of all or substantially all of the corporation s property or assets, recommending to the stockholders a dissolution of the corporation or a revocation of a dissolution, or amending the Bylaws of the corporation. Such a committee may, to the extent expressly provided in the resolution of the Board of Directors, have the power or authority to declare a dividend or to authorize the issuance of stock or to adopt a certificate of ownership and merger pursuant to Section 253 of the DGCL. 
    
  (b)  At any meeting of any committee or subcommittee of a committee, a majority of the directors then serving on such committee of the Board of Directors or subcommittee of a committee shall constitute a quorum for the transaction of business by the committee or  
  
   20 

subcommittee, unless the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, a resolution of the Board of Directors or a resolution of a committee that created the subcommittee requires a greater or lesser number, provided that in no case shall a quorum be less than 1/3 of the directors then serving on the committee or subcommittee. The vote of the majority of the members of a committee or subcommittee present at a meeting at which a quorum is present shall be the act of the committee or subcommittee, unless the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws, a resolution of the Board of Directors or a resolution of a committee that created the subcommittee requires a greater number. 
    
  (c)  Each committee, except as otherwise provided by resolution of the Board of Directors, shall fix the time and place of its meetings within or without the State of Delaware, shall adopt its own rules and procedures, and shall keep a record of its acts and proceedings and report the same from time to time to the Board of Directors. 
    
  (d)  Unless otherwise provided in the Certificate of Incorporation, these Bylaws or the resolution of the Board of Directors designating the committee, a committee may create one or more subcommittees, each subcommittee to consist of one or more members of the committee, and delegate to a subcommittee any or all of the powers and authority of the committee. 
    
  ARTICLE III 
    
  Officers 
    
  Section 1.    Officers and Their Election  .  The officers of the corporation shall be a Chief Executive Officer, a President, a Secretary, a Chief Financial Officer and such Vice Presidents, Assistant Secretaries, Assistant Chief Financial Officers and other officers as the Board of Directors may from time to time determine and elect or appoint.  The Board of Directors may appoint one of its members to the office of Chairman of the Board of Directors and another of its members to the office of Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors and from time to time define the powers and duties of these and other officers, employees or agents of the corporation notwithstanding any other provisions of these Bylaws.  All officers shall be elected by the Board of Directors and shall serve at the will of the Board of Directors.  Any officer may, but need not, be a director.  Two or more offices may be held by the same person.  All officers shall perform such duties and have such powers as the Board of Directors shall designate by resolution, or in the absence of such resolution, as set forth in these Bylaws.  The Board of Directors may from time to time delegate the powers or duties of any officer to any other officers or agents, notwithstanding the foregoing provisions of this Article III. 
    
  Section 2.    Term of Office  .  The Chief Executive Officer, the President, the Chief Financial Officer and the Secretary shall hold office until his or her successor is elected and qualified or until his or her earlier resignation or removal. 
    
  Section 3.    Vacancies  .  Any vacancy at any time existing in any office may be filled by the Board of Directors. 

21 

Section 4.    Chairman of the Board of Directors  .  The Board of Directors may, in its discretion, elect a Chairman of the Board of Directors from among its members.  He or she may be the Chief Executive Officer of the corporation if so designated by the Board of Directors, and he or she shall preside at all meetings of the Board of Directors at which he or she is present and shall exercise and perform such other powers and duties as may from time to time be assigned to him or her by the Board of Directors or prescribed by the Bylaws. 
    
  Section 5.    Chief Executive Officer  .  The Board of Directors may elect a Chief Executive Officer of the corporation who may also be the Chairman of the Board of Directors or President of the corporation or both.  It shall be his or her duty and he or she shall have the power to see that all orders and resolutions of the Board of Directors are carried into effect.  He or she shall from time to time report to the Board of Directors all matters within his or her knowledge which the interests of the corporation may require to be brought to its notice.  
    
  Section 6.    President  .  If there is no Chief Executive Officer, the President shall be the chief executive officer of the corporation except as the Board of Directors may otherwise provide.  The President shall perform such duties and have such powers additional to the foregoing as the Board of Directors shall designate. 
    
  Section 7.    Vice Presidents  .  In the absence or disability of the President, his or her powers and duties shall be performed by the vice president, if only one, or, if more than one, by the one designated for the purpose by the Board of Directors. Each vice president shall perform such duties and have such powers additional to the foregoing as the Board of Directors shall designate. 
    
  Section 8.    Chief Financial Officer  .  The Chief Financial Officer shall be the treasurer of the corporation and shall keep full and accurate accounts of receipts and disbursements in books belonging to the corporation and shall deposit all monies and other valuable effects in the name and to the credit of the corporation in such depositories as shall be designated by the Board of Directors or in the absence of such designation in such depositories as he or she shall from time to time deem proper.  The Chief Financial Officer (or any Assistant Chief Financial Officer) shall sign all stock certificates as treasurer of the corporation.  He or she shall disburse the funds of the corporation as shall be ordered by the Board of Directors, taking proper vouchers for such disbursements.  He or she shall promptly render to the Chief Executive Officer and to the Board of Directors such statements of his or her transactions and accounts as the Chief Executive Officer and Board of Directors respectively may from time to time require.  The Chief Financial Officer shall perform such duties and have such powers additional to the foregoing as the Board of Directors may designate. 
    
  Section 9.    Assistant Chief Financial Officers  .  In the absence or disability of the Chief Financial Officer, his or her powers and duties shall be performed by the Assistant Chief Financial Officer, if only one, or if more than one, by the one designated for the purpose by the Board of Directors.  Each Assistant Chief Financial Officer shall perform such duties and have such powers additional to the foregoing as the Board of Directors shall designate. 

22 

Section 10.    Secretary  .  The Secretary shall issue notices of all meetings of stockholders, of the Board of Directors and of committees thereof where notices of such meetings are required by law or these Bylaws.  He or she shall record the proceedings of the meetings of the stockholders and of the Board of Directors and shall be responsible for the custody thereof in a book to be kept for that purpose.  He or she shall also record the proceedings of the committees of the Board of Directors unless such committees appoint their own respective secretaries.  Unless the Board of Directors shall appoint a transfer agent and/or registrar, the Secretary shall be charged with the duty of keeping, or causing to be kept, accurate records of all stock outstanding, stock certificates issued and stock transfers. He or she shall sign such instruments as require his or her signature. The Secretary shall have custody of the corporate seal and shall affix and attest such seal on all documents whose execution under seal is duly authorized. In his or her absence at any meeting, an Assistant Secretary or the Secretary pro tempore shall perform his or her duties thereat. He or she shall perform such duties and have such powers additional to the foregoing as the Board of Directors shall designate. 
    
  Section 11.    Assistant Secretaries  .  In the absence or disability of the Secretary, his or her powers and duties shall be performed by the Assistant Secretary, if only one, or, if more than one, by the one designated for the purpose by the Board of Directors.  Each Assistant Secretary shall perform such duties and have such powers additional to the foregoing as the Board of Directors shall designate. 
    
  Section 12.    Salaries  .  The salaries and other compensation of officers, agents and employees shall be fixed from time to time by or under authority from the Board of Directors.  No officer shall be prevented from receiving a salary or other compensation by reason of the fact that he or she is also a director of the corporation. 
    
  Section 13.    Removal  .  The Board of Directors may remove any officer, either with or without cause, at any time. 
    
  Section 14.    Bond  .  The corporation may secure the fidelity of any or all of its officers or agents by bond or otherwise. 
    
  Section 15.    Resignations  .  Any officer of the corporation may resign at any time by giving written notice to the Board of Directors, to the Chairman of the Board of Directors, if any, to the Chief Executive Officer or to the Secretary of the corporation.  Any such resignation shall take effect at the time specified therein, or, if the time be not specified, upon receipt thereof; and unless otherwise specified therein, the acceptance of such resignation shall not be necessary to make it effective. 
    
  ARTICLE IV 
    
  Capital Stock 
    
  Section 1.    Stock Certificates; Uncertificated Shares  .  The shares of capital stock of the corporation shall be represented by certificates, provided that the Board of Directors may provide  
  
   23 

by resolution or resolutions that some or all of any or all classes or series of its stock may be uncertificated shares.  Any such resolution shall not apply to shares represented by a certificate until such certificate is surrendered to the corporation (or the transfer agent or registrar, as the case may be).  Notwithstanding the adoption of such a resolution, every holder of stock represented by certificates and upon request every holder of uncertificated shares shall be entitled to have a certificate signed by, or in the name of, the corporation by the Chairman or Vice-Chairman of the Board of Directors or the President or a Vice President, and by the Chief Financial Officer (in his or her capacity as treasurer) or an Assistant Chief Financial Officer (in his or her capacity as assistant treasurer), or the Secretary or an Assistant Secretary, certifying the number of shares owned by him or her in the corporation.  Any or all of the signatures on the certificate may be a facsimile.  In case any officer, transfer agent, or registrar who has signed or whose facsimile signature has been placed upon a certificate shall have ceased to be such officer, transfer agent or registrar before the certificate is issued, such certificate may nevertheless be issued by the corporation with the same effect as if he or she were such officer, transfer agent or registrar at the date of issue. 
    
  Section 2.    Classes of Stock  .  If the corporation shall be authorized to issue more than one class of stock or more than one series of any class, the face or back of each certificate issued by the corporation to represent such class or series shall either (a) set forth in full or summarize the powers, designations, preferences and relative, participating, optional or other special rights of each class of stock or series thereof and the qualifications, limitations or restrictions thereof, or (b) contain a statement that the corporation will furnish a statement of the same without charge to each stockholder who so requests.  Within a reasonable time after the issuance or transfer of  uncertificated shares, the corporation shall send to the registered holder thereof such written notice as may be required by law as to the information required by law to be set forth or stated on stock certificates. 
    
  Section 3.    Transfer of Stock  .  Shares of stock shall be transferable only upon the books of the corporation pursuant to applicable law and such rules and regulations as the Board of Directors shall from time to time prescribe.  The Board of Directors may at any time or from time to time appoint a transfer agent or agents or a registrar or registrars for the transfer or registration of shares of stock.  Except where a certificate, or uncertificated shares, are issued in accordance with Section 5 of Article IV of these Bylaws, one or more outstanding certificates representing in the aggregate the number of shares involved shall be surrendered for cancellation before a new certificate, or uncertificated shares, are issued representing such shares. 
    
  Section 4.    Holders of Record  .  Prior to due presentment for registration of transfer the corporation may treat the holder of record of a share of its stock as the complete owner thereof exclusively entitled to vote, to receive notifications and otherwise entitled to all the rights and powers of a complete owner thereof, notwithstanding notice to the contrary. 
    
  Section 5.    Stock Certificates  .  The Board of Directors may direct that a new stock certificate or certificates, or uncertificated shares, be issued in place of any certificate or certificates theretofore issued by the corporation alleged to have been lost, stolen, or destroyed upon the making of an affidavit of that fact by the person claiming the certificate of stock to be  
  
   24 

lost, stolen or destroyed.  When authorizing such issue of a new certificate or certificates, or uncertificated shares, the Board of Directors may, in its discretion and as a condition precedent to the issuance thereof, require the owner of such lost, stolen or destroyed certificate or certificates or his or her legal representative, to give the corporation a bond sufficient to indemnify it against any claim that may be made against the corporation on account of the alleged loss, theft, or destruction, of such certificates or the issuance of such new certificate or certificates, or uncertificated shares. 
    
  Section 6.    Record Date  .  In order that the corporation may determine the stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at any meeting of stockholders, or to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of any rights or to exercise any rights in respect of any change, conversion or exchange of stock or for the purpose of any other lawful action other than stockholder action by written consent, the Board of Directors may fix a record date, which record date shall not precede the date on which the resolution fixing the record date is adopted and which record date shall not be more than 60 nor less than 10 days before the date of any meeting of stockholders, nor more than 60 days prior to the time for such other action as hereinbefore described; provided, however, that if no record date is fixed by the Board of Directors, the record date for determining stockholders entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall be at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which notice is given or, if notice is waived, at the close of business on the day next preceding the day on which the meeting is held, and, for determining stockholders entitled to receive payment of any dividend or other distribution or allotment of rights or to exercise any rights of change, conversion or exchange of stock or for any other purpose, the record date shall be at the close of business on the day on which the Board of Directors adopts a resolution relating thereto.  A determination of stockholders of record entitled to notice of or to vote at a meeting of stockholders shall apply to any adjournment of the meeting; provided, however, that the Board of Directors may fix a new record date for the adjourned meeting. 
    
  ARTICLE V 
    
  Miscellaneous Provisions 
    
  Section 1.    Interested Directors and Officers  .  (a)  No contract or transaction between the corporation and one or more of its directors or officers, or between the corporation and any other corporation, partnership, association, or other organization in which one or more of its directors or officers are directors or officers, or have a financial interest, shall be void or voidable solely for this reason, or solely because the director or officer is present at or participates in the meeting of the Board of Directors or committee thereof which authorizes the contract or transaction, or solely because his or her or their votes are counted for such purpose, if: 
    
  (i)  the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the Board of Directors or the committee, and the Board of Directors or committee in good faith authorizes the contract or transaction by the affirmative vote of a majority of the disinterested directors, even though the number of disinterested directors is less than a quorum; or 
  
   25 

(ii)   the material facts as to his or her relationship or interest and as to the contract or transaction are disclosed or are known to the stockholders entitled to vote thereon, and the contract or transaction is specifically approved in good faith by vote of the stockholders; or 
    
  (iii)  the contract or transaction is fair as to the corporation as of the time it is authorized, approved or ratified, by the Board of Directors, a committee thereof, or the shareholders. 
    
  (b)  Common or interested directors may be counted in determining the presence of a quorum at a meeting of the Board of Directors or of a committee which authorizes the contract or transaction. 
    
  Section 2.    Indemnification  .   
    
  (a)    Right to Indemnification  .  The corporation shall indemnify and hold harmless each person who was or is made a party or is threatened to be made a party to or is otherwise involved in any action, suit or proceeding, whether civil, criminal, administrative or investigative (hereinafter a  proceeding ), by reason of the fact that he or she is or was a director or an officer of the corporation or is or was serving at the request of the corporation as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation or of a partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, including service with respect to an employee benefit plan (hereinafter an  indemnitee ), whether the basis of such proceeding is alleged action in an official capacity as a director, officer, employee or agent or in any other capacity while serving as a director or officer, to the fullest extent authorized by law, as the same exists or may hereafter be amended (but, in the case of any such amendment, only to the extent that such amendment permits the corporation to provide broader indemnification rights than such law permitted the corporation to provide prior to such amendment), against all expense, liability and loss (including attorneys  fees, judgments, fines, ERISA excise taxes or penalties and amounts paid in settlement) reasonably incurred or suffered by such indemnitee in connection therewith; provided, however, that except as provided in Subsection (c) of this Section with respect to proceedings to enforce rights to indemnification, the corporation shall indemnify any such indemnitee in connection with a proceeding (or part thereof) initiated by such indemnitee only if such proceeding (or part thereof) was authorized by the Board of Directors of the corporation; and provided further that as to any matter disposed of by a compromise payment by such person, pursuant to a consent decree or otherwise, no indemnification either for said payment or for any other expenses shall be provided unless such compromise and indemnification therefor shall be appropriated: 
    
  (i)  by a majority vote of a quorum consisting of disinterested directors; 
    
  (ii)   if such a quorum cannot be obtained, then by a majority vote of a committee of the Board of Directors consisting of all the disinterested directors; 
    
  (iii)  if there are not two or more disinterested directors in office, then by a majority of the directors then in office, provided they have obtained a written finding by special  
  
   26 

independent legal counsel appointed by a majority of the directors to the effect that, based upon a reasonable investigation of the relevant facts as described in such opinion, the person to be indemnified appears to have acted in good faith in the reasonable belief that his or her action was in the best interests of the corporation (or, to the extent that such matter relates to service with respect to an employee benefit plan, in the best interests of the participants or beneficiaries of such employee benefit plan); 
    
  (iv)  by the holders of a majority of the shares of stock entitled to vote for the election of directors, which majority may include interested directors and officers; or 
    
  (v)  by a court of competent jurisdiction. 
    
  An  interested  director or officer is one against whom in such capacity the proceeding in question or other proceeding on the same or similar grounds is then pending.  The termination of any action, suit or proceeding by judgment, order, settlement, conviction, or upon a plea of nolo contendere or its equivalent, shall not, of itself, create a presumption that the person did not act in good faith and in a manner which he or she reasonably believed to be in or not opposed to the best interests of the corporation, and, with respect to any criminal action or proceeding, had reasonable cause to believe that his or her conduct was unlawful. 
    
  (b)    Right to Advancement of Expenses  .  The right to indemnification conferred in Subsection (a) of this Section shall include the right to be paid by the corporation the expenses incurred in defending any such proceeding in advance of its final disposition (hereinafter an  advancement of expenses  provided, however, that if the DGCL requires, an advancement of expenses incurred by an indemnitee in his or her capacity as a director or officer (and not in any other capacity in which service was or is rendered by such indemnitee, including, without limitation, service to an employee benefit plan) shall be made only upon delivery to the corporation of an undertaking (hereinafter an  undertaking ), by or on behalf of such indemnitee, to repay all amounts so advanced if it shall ultimately be determined by final judicial decision from which there is no further right to appeal (hereinafter a  final adjudication ) that such indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified for such expenses under this Section or otherwise, which undertaking may be accepted without reference to the financial ability of such person to make repayment. 
    
  (c)    Right of Indemnitee to Bring Suit  .  If a claim under Subsection (a) or (b) of this Section is not paid in full by the corporation within 60 days after a written claim has been received by the corporation, except in the case of a claim for an advancement of expenses, in which case the applicable period shall be 20 days, the indemnitee may at any time there after bring suit against the corporation to recover the unpaid amount of the claim.  If successful in whole or in part in any such suit, or in a suit brought by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the indemnitee shall be entitled to be paid also the expense of prosecuting or defending such suit.  In (i) any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification hereunder (but not in a suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to an advancement of expenses) it shall be a defense that, and (ii) any suit by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of  
  
   27 

an undertaking the corporation shall be entitled to recover such expenses upon a final adjudication that, the indemnitee has not met any applicable standard for indemnification set forth in the DGCL.  Neither the failure of the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) to have made a determination prior to the commencement of such suit that indemnification of the indemnitee is proper in the circumstances because the indemnitee has met the applicable standard of conduct set forth in the DGCL, nor an actual determination by the corporation (including its Board of Directors, independent legal counsel, or its stockholders) that the indemnitee has not met such applicable standard of conduct, shall create a presumption that the indemnitee has not met the applicable standard of conduct or, in the case of such a suit brought by the indemnitee, be a defense to such suit. In any suit brought by the indemnitee to enforce a right to indemnification or to an advancement of expenses hereunder, or by the corporation to recover an advancement of expenses pursuant to the terms of an undertaking, the burden of proving that the indemnitee is not entitled to be indemnified, or to such advancement of expenses, under this Section or otherwise shall be on the corporation. 
    
  (d)    Non-exclusivity of Rights  .  The rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses conferred in this Section shall not be exclusive of any other right which any person may have or hereafter acquire under any statute, certificate of incorporation, bylaw, agreement, vote of disinterested directors or otherwise.  The corporation s indemnification under this Section 2 of any person who is or was a director or officer of the corporation, or is or was serving, at the request of the corporation, as a director, officer, employee or agent of another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, shall be reduced by any amounts such person receives as indemnification (i) under any policy of insurance purchased and maintained on his or her behalf by the corporation, (ii) from such other corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise, or (iii) under any other applicable indemnification provision. 
    
  (e)    Joint Representation  .  If both the corporation and any person to be indemnified are parties to an action, suit or proceeding (other than an action or suit by or in the right of the corporation to procure a judgment in its favor), counsel representing the corporation therein may also represent such indemnified person (unless such dual representation would involve such counsel in a conflict of interest in violation of applicable principles of professional ethics), and the corporation shall pay all fees and expenses of such counsel incurred during the period of dual representation other than those, if any, as would not have been incurred if counsel were representing only the corporation; and any allocation made in good faith by such counsel of fees and disbursements payable under this paragraph by the corporation versus fees and disbursements payable by any such indemnified person shall be final and binding upon the corporation and such indemnified person. 
    
  (f)    Indemnification of Employees and Agents of the Corporation  .  Except to the extent that rights to indemnification and advancement of expenses of employees or agents of the corporation may be required by any statute, the Certificate of Incorporation, this Section or any other bylaw, agreement, vote of disinterested directors or otherwise, the corporation may, to the extent authorized from time to time by the Board of Directors, grant rights to indemnification and to the advancement of expenses to any employee or agent of the corporation to the fullest  
  
   28 

extent of the provisions of this Section with respect to the indemnification and advancement of expenses of directors and officers of the corporation. 
    
  (g)    Insurance  .  The corporation may maintain insurance, at its expense, to protect itself and any director, officer, employee or agent of the corporation or another corporation, partnership, joint venture, trust or other enterprise against any expense, liability or loss, whether or not the corporation would have the power to indemnify such person against such expense, liability or loss under the DGCL (as currently in effect or hereafter amended), the Certificate of Incorporation or these Bylaws. 
    
  (h)    Nature of Indemnification Right; Modification of Repeal of Indemnification  .  Each person who is or becomes a director or officer as described in subsection (a) of this Section 2 shall be deemed to have served or to have continued to serve in such capacity in reliance upon the indemnity provided for in this Section 2.  All rights to indemnification (and the advancement of expenses) under this Section 2 shall be deemed to be provided by a contract between the corporation and the person who serves as a director or officer of the corporation at any time while these Bylaws and other relevant provisions of the DGCL and other applicable law, if any, are in effect. Such rights shall continue as to an indemnitee who has ceased to be a director, officer, employee or agent and shall inure to the benefit of the indemnitee s heirs, executors and administrators. Any modification or repeal of this Section 2 shall not adversely affect any right or protection existing under this Section 2 at the time of such modification or repeal. 
    
  Section 3.    Stock in Other Corporations  .  Subject to any limitations that may be imposed by the Board of Directors, the President or any person or persons authorized by the Board of Directors may, in the name and on behalf of the corporation, (a) call meetings of the holders of stock or other securities of any corporation or other organization, stock or other securities of which are held by this corporation, (b) act, or appoint any other person or persons (with or without powers of substitution) to act in the name and on behalf of the corporation, or (c) express consent or dissent, as a holder of such securities, to corporate or other action by such other corporation or organization. 
    
  Section 4.    Checks, Notes, Drafts and Other Instruments  .  Checks, notes drafts and other instruments for the payment of money drawn or endorsed in the name of the corporation may be signed by any officer or officers or person or persons authorized by the Board of Directors to sign the same. No officer or person shall sign any such instrument as aforesaid unless authorized by the Board of Directors to do so. 
    
  Section 5.    Corporate Seal  .  The seal of the corporation shall be circular in form, bearing the name of the corporation, the word  Delaware , and the year of incorporation, and the same may be used by causing it or a facsimile thereof to be impressed or affixed or in any other manner reproduced. 
    
  Section 6.    Books and Records  .  The books, accounts and records of the corporation, except as may be otherwise required by law, may be kept outside of the State of Delaware, at such place or places as the Board of Directors may from time to time appoint.  Except as may  
  
   29 

otherwise be provided by law, the Board of Directors shall determine whether and to what extent the books, accounts, records and documents of the corporation, or any of them, shall be open to the inspection of the stockholders. 
    
  Section 7.    Severability  .  If any term or provision of the Bylaws, or the application thereof to any person or circumstances or period of time, shall to any extent be invalid or unenforceable, the remainder of the Bylaws shall be valid and enforced to the fullest extent permitted by law. 
    
  Section 8.    Interpretations  .  Words importing persons include firms, associations and corporations, all words importing the singular number include the plural number and vice versa, and all words importing the masculine gender include the feminine gender. 
    
  Section 9.    Amendments  .  The Board of Directors is expressly empowered to adopt, amend or repeal these Bylaws; provided that the Board of Directors shall not have the power to alter, amend or repeal any bylaw adopted by the stockholders that by its terms may be altered, amended or repealed only by the stockholders.  The stockholders also have the power to adopt, amend or repeal the Bylaws of the corporation. 
  
   30 

</EX-3.02>

<EX-21.01>
 3
 vrsn-20171231x10kxex2101.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.01

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.01  
  Subsidiaries of the Registrant 
    
                 Name of Subsidiary 
    Jurisdiction 
      eNIC Cocos (Keeling) Island Pty. Ltd. 
    Australia 
      eNIC Corporation 
    U.S. - Washington 
      Global Registration Services Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      The .tv Corporation International 
    U.S. - Delaware 
      The .TV Corporation (Tuvalu) Pty Ltd. 
    Tuvalu 
      VeriSign do Brasil Servicos para Internet Ltda 
    Brazil 
      VeriSign Holdings Limited 
    Cayman Islands 
      VeriSign India Private Limited 
    India 
      VeriSign International Holdings, Inc. 
    U.S. - Delaware 
      VeriSign Internet Services S rl 
    Switzerland 
      VeriSign Internet Technology  Services (Beijing) Co., Ltd. 
    China 
      VeriSign Israel Ltd. 
    Israel 
      VeriSign Naming and Directory Services, LLC 
    U.S. - Delaware 
      VeriSign Netherlands B.V. 
    Netherlands 
      VeriSign S rl 
    Switzerland 
      VeriSign Services India Private Limited 
    India 
      VeriSign Spain S.L. 
    Spain 
      VeriSign Switzerland SA 
    Switzerland 
      Whiteley Investments, Ltd. 
    United Kingdom 

</EX-21.01>

<EX-23.01>
 4
 vrsn-20171231x10kxex2301.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.01

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.01  
  Consent of Independent Registered Public Accounting Firm 

The Board of Directors  
    
  VeriSign, Inc.: 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the registration statements (Nos. 333-39212, 333-45237, 333-46803, 333-50072, 333-53230, 333-58583, 333-59458, 333-69818, 333-75236, 333-82941, 333-86178, 333-86188, 333-106395, 333-113431, 333-117908, 333-123937, 333-125052, 333-126352, 333-127249, 333-132988,  333-134026,  333-144590,  and  333-147136) on  Form  S-8,  the registration statement (No. 333-147135) on Form S-1, the  registration  statements (Nos. 333-74393,  333-77433,  333-89991,  333-94445,  333-72222,  and  333-76386)  on  Form  S-3,  and registration statements  (Nos. 333-190732, 333-204485, and 333-219525) on Form S-4 of VeriSign, Inc. (the Company) of our reports dated February 16, 2018 with respect to the consolidated balance sheets of VeriSign, Inc., and subsidiaries as of December 31, 2017 and 2016, and the related consolidated statements of comprehensive income, stockholders' deficit, and cash flows for each of the years in the three-year period ended December 31, 2017, and the related notes (collectively, the  consolidated financial statements ), and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting as of December 31, 2017, which reports appear in the December 31, 2017 annual report on Form 10-K of the Company. 

/s/ KPMG LLP 
    
  McLean, Virginia  
  February 16, 2018 

</EX-23.01>

<EX-31.01>
 5
 vrsn-20171231x10kxex3101.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.01

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.01  
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO  
  EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)  
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302  
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
    
  I, D. James Bidzos, certify that:  
  1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of VeriSign, Inc.;  
  2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
  3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  
  4.  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
  a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  
  b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
  c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  
  d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
  5.  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  
  a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
  b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 16, 2018 
    By: 
    /S/ D. J  AMES   B  IDZOS 

D. James Bidzos 

Chief Executive Officer 

(Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 6
 vrsn-20171231x10kxex3102.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.02

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 31.02  
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO  
  EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a)  
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302  
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
    
  I, George E. Kilguss, III, certify that:  
  1.  I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of VeriSign, Inc.;  
  2.  Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report;  
  3.  Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report;  
  4.  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have:  
  a)  Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared;  
  b)  Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles;  
  c)  Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and  
  d)  Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and  
  5.  The registrant s other certifying officer(s) and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of the registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions):  
  a)  All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and  
  b)  Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting.  

Date: February 16, 2018 
    By: 
    /S/ G  EORGE   E. K  ILGUSS  , III 

George E. Kilguss, III 

Chief Financial Officer 

(Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 7
 vrsn-20171231x10kxex3201.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.01

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.01  
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO  
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350  
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906  
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
    
  I, D. James Bidzos, Chief Executive Officer of VeriSign, Inc. (the  Company ), do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:  
  1.  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended   December 31, 2017  , as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  
  2.  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  
    
                 Date: February 16, 2018 
    /S/ D. J  AMES   B  IDZOS 
        
    D. James Bidzos 
        
    Chief Executive Officer 
        
    (Principal Executive Officer) 

</EX-32.01>

<EX-32.02>
 8
 vrsn-20171231x10kxex3202.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.02

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.02  
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO  
  18 U.S.C. SECTION 1350  
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 906  
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
    
  I, George E. Kilguss, III, Chief Financial Officer of VeriSign, Inc. (the  Company ), do hereby certify, pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 1350, as adopted pursuant to Section 906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that, to my knowledge:  
  1.  the Annual Report on Form 10-K of the Company for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2017, as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission (the  Report ), fully complies with the requirements of Section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and  
  2.  the information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company.  
    
                 Date: February 16, 2018 
    /S/ G  EORGE   E. K  ILGUSS  , III 
        
    George E. Kilguss, III 
        
    Chief Financial Officer 
        
    (Principal Financial Officer) 

</EX-32.02>

<EX-101.INS>
 9
 vrsn-20171231.xml
 XBRL INSTANCE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.INS>

<EX-101.SCH>
 10
 vrsn-20171231.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 11
 vrsn-20171231_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 12
 vrsn-20171231_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 13
 vrsn-20171231_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 14
 vrsn-20171231_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

