<Header>
<FileStats>
    <FileName>20180831_10-K_edgar_data_896878_0000896878-18-000171_1.txt</FileName>
    <GrossFileSize>17207911</GrossFileSize>
    <NetFileSize>237582</NetFileSize>
    <NonText_DocumentType_Chars>2292986</NonText_DocumentType_Chars>
    <HTML_Chars>3912028</HTML_Chars>
    <XBRL_Chars>4758410</XBRL_Chars>
    <XML_Chars>5859899</XML_Chars>
    <N_Tables>6</N_Tables>
    <N_Exhibits>14</N_Exhibits>
</FileStats>
<SEC-Header>
0000896878-18-000171.hdr.sgml : 20180831
<ACCEPTANCE-DATETIME>20180831170517
ACCESSION NUMBER:		0000896878-18-000171
CONFORMED SUBMISSION TYPE:	10-K
PUBLIC DOCUMENT COUNT:		102
CONFORMED PERIOD OF REPORT:	20180731
FILED AS OF DATE:		20180831
DATE AS OF CHANGE:		20180831

FILER:

	COMPANY DATA:	
		COMPANY CONFORMED NAME:			INTUIT INC
		CENTRAL INDEX KEY:			0000896878
		STANDARD INDUSTRIAL CLASSIFICATION:	SERVICES-PREPACKAGED SOFTWARE [7372]
		IRS NUMBER:				770034661
		STATE OF INCORPORATION:			DE
		FISCAL YEAR END:			0731

	FILING VALUES:
		FORM TYPE:		10-K
		SEC ACT:		1934 Act
		SEC FILE NUMBER:	000-21180
		FILM NUMBER:		181050641

	BUSINESS ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		2700 COAST AVENUE
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94043
		BUSINESS PHONE:		650-944-6000

	MAIL ADDRESS:	
		STREET 1:		P.O. BOX 7850
		CITY:			MOUNTAIN VIEW
		STATE:			CA
		ZIP:			94039-7850

</SEC-Header>
</Header>

 0000896878-18-000171.txt : 20180831

10-K
 1
 fy18q410-kdocument.htm
 10-K

<EX-10.08>
 2
 fy18q4-ex1008.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.08

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.08+ 
    
  Award No.   *** 
  INTUIT INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED 2005 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT 
  Restricted Stock Unit  
  (Executive Performance-Based Vesting: Relative Total Shareholder Return Goals) 
  Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Intuit  or the  Company ), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ( Award ) pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), of the Company s common stock, $0.01 par value per share ( Common Stock  or  Shares ).  The maximum number of Shares that are subject to the Award and may become eligible to vest ( Maximum Shares ) is set forth below.  All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ( Agreement ) that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan.  This Agreement shall include any appendices, addenda or consents attached hereto or otherwise associated herewith.  This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference.  This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan.  If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply. 
    
  Name of Participant: ***       
  Maximum Shares:    200% of the Target Shares 
  Target Shares:  ***   total  (one-third of this number for each of the three overlapping Performance Periods) 
  Date of Grant: ***           
  Vesting Date:  September 1, 2021 
    
  ***This information is as shown in the Restricted Stock Units section of the third party administrator s online portal. 
    
  Vesting Based on Achievement of Total Shareholder Return Goals  .  Subject to the service conditions included in this Agreement, vesting of this Award is based on Intuit s percentile rank of total shareholder return ( TSR ) among a group of comparator companies (the  Comparison Group ), as set forth on   Exhibit A   (the  TSR Goals ).  Actual performance against the TSR Goals is measured as follows: up to one-third of the Maximum Shares will be eligible to vest based on the actual performance against the TSR Goals as measured over the period beginning on August 1, 2018 and ending on July 31, 2019 (the  12 Month Performance Period ), up to one-third of the Maximum Shares will be eligible to vest based on the actual performance against the TSR Goals as measured over the period beginning on August 1, 2018 and ending on July 31, 2020 (the  24 Month Performance Period ), and up to one-third of the Maximum Shares will be eligible to be vest based on the actual performance against the TSR Goals as measured over the period beginning on August 1, 2018 and ending on July 31, 2021 (the  36 Month Performance Period  and together with the 12 Month Performance Period and the 24 Month Performance Period, the  Performance Periods  and each a  Performance Period ).  The actual performance against the TSR Goals for each Performance Period must be certified by the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of Intuit s Board of Directors ( Committee ) in order for any portion of this Award to be eligible to vest;   provided  ,   however  , that if Intuit s TSR is negative during a Performance Period, then the maximum Shares that the Committee can certify as eligible to vest for that Performance Period will be the Target Shares for that Performance Period.  The Committee will certify the results of the TSR Goals as soon as reasonably possible (the date of such certification for the respective Performance Period, the  Certification Date ) after each Performance Period.  Any portion of this Award that is eligible to vest based on the Committee s certification will be subject to continued service through the Vesting Date in order to become fully vested.  For avoidance of doubt, you must remain in continued service with Intuit through and including the Vesting Date in order to become vested in any portion of the Award that becomes eligible to vest based on the Committee s certification.  Any portion of this Award that is not eligible to vest based on the Committee s certification for the applicable Performance Period will terminate on the Certification Date of the respective Performance Period. 
    
  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sections 1(b) through 1(e) provide certain circumstances in which you may vest in this Award before the Vesting Date and/or without certification of the TSR Goals by the Committee.  If any of Sections 1(b) through 1(e) apply, then any portion of this Award that does not vest pursuant to those sections will terminate. 
    
  Comparison Group  .  The Comparison Group will be the companies shown on   Exhibit B   (each, together with Intuit, a  Member Company  provided, however, that a company will be removed from the Comparison Group if, during a Performance Period, it ceases to have a class of equity securities that is both registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and actively traded on a U.S. public securities market (unless such cessation of such listing is due to any of the circumstances in (i) through (iv) of the following paragraph). 

Definition of TSR  .   TSR  as applied to any Member Company means stock price appreciation from the beginning to the end of the applicable Performance Period, plus dividends and distributions made or declared (assuming such dividends or distributions are reinvested in the common stock of the Member Company) during such Performance Period, expressed as a percentage return.  Except as modified in Section 1(e), for purposes of computing TSR, the stock price at the beginning of a Performance Period will be the average price of a share of common stock of a Member Company over the 30 trading days beginning on August 1, 2018, and the stock price at the end of the Performance Period will be the average price of a share of common stock of a Member Company over the 30 trading days ending (i) July 31, 2019, for the 12 Month Performance Period, (ii) July 31, 2020, for the 24 Month Performance Period, and (iii) July 31, 2021 for the 36 Month Performance Period, adjusted for stock splits or similar changes in capital structure; provided, however, that TSR for a Member Company will be negative one hundred percent (-100%) if the Member Company: (i) files for bankruptcy, reorganization, or liquidation under any chapter of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; (ii) is the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding that is not dismissed within 30 days; (iii) is the subject of a stockholder approved plan of liquidation or dissolution; or (iv) ceases to conduct substantial business operations.  For avoidance of doubt, the acquisition of a Member Company by another person or group of related persons by itself does not result in the Member Company being treated as ceasing to conduct substantial business operations. 
    
           1. 
    In the event of your Termination or a Corporate Transaction prior to the Vesting Date, the following provisions will govern the vesting of this Award: 
       
           (a) 
    Termination Generally  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the Vesting Date for any reason other than as expressly set forth in the other subsections of this Section 1 of the Agreement, this Award immediately will terminate without having vested as to any of the Shares and you will have no right or claim to anything under this Award. 
       
           (b) 
    Termination due to Retirement  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the Vesting Date due to your Retirement, you will vest immediately on the date of your Retirement in a pro-rata portion of the Award, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by thirty-six (36) months, multiply this quotient (the  pro rata percentage ) to the sum of (i) the number of Shares that were to vest on the Vesting Date, subject to your continued employment, based on the actual level of achievement of the TSR Goals, as certified by the Committee, for each completed Performance Period, and (ii) 100% of the Target Shares that remain subject to any incomplete Performance Period, and round down to the nearest whole Share.  The Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  Subject to Section 6(k), Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(b) will be distributed to you as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of your Retirement.  For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the Termination of your employment with the Company after you have reached age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) full years of service with the Company (including any parent or Subsidiary).   
       
           (c) 
    Termination due to Death or Disability  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the Vesting Date due to your death or Disability after you have been actively employed by the Company for one year or more, this Award will vest immediately as to the sum of (i) the number of Shares that were to vest on the Vesting Date, assuming that you had continued employment until the Vesting Date, based on the actual level of achievement of the TSR Goals, as certified by the Committee, for each completed Performance Period, and (ii) 100% of the Target Shares that remain subject to any incomplete Performance Period.  The Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(c) will be distributed to you as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of your Termination due to your death or Disability.  For purposes of this Award,  Disability  is defined in Section 30(j) of the Plan. 
       
           (d) 
    Involuntary Termination  .  In the event of your Involuntary Termination before the Vesting Date, a pro rata portion of this Award will vest immediately on your Termination Date by applying the pro rata percentage to the sum of (i) the number of Shares that were to vest on the Vesting Date, assuming that you had continued employment until the Vesting Date, based on the actual level of achievement of the TSR Goals, as certified by the Committee, for each completed Performance Period, and (ii) 100% of the Target Shares that remain subject to any incomplete Performance Period, and rounding down to the nearest whole Share.  The pro rata percentage will be a percentage equal to your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant   divided   by thirty-six months.  Subject to Section 6(k), Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(d) will be distributed to you as soon as reasonably possible after the effective date of a waiver and general release of claims executed by you in favor of the Company and certain related persons determined by the Company in the form presented by the Company ( Release ).  If you do not execute the Release within forty-five (45) days following your Termination Date, or such longer period of time as may be required under applicable law, then you will not be entitled to the receipt of  

any Shares under this Section 1(d).  If the time period to execute and/or revoke the Release spans two calendar years, then, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Shares to be distributed to you pursuant to this Section 1(d) will not be distributed to you until the second calendar year.  Involuntary Termination means, for purposes of this Agreement, either (A) your Termination by the Company without Cause, or (B) your resignation for Good Reason.   Cause  means, for purposes of this Agreement, (i) gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of your duties to the Company (other than as a result of a Disability) that has resulted or is likely to result in material damage to the Company, after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Company which specifically identifies the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties and you have been provided with a reasonable opportunity of not less than 30 days to cure any alleged gross negligence or willful misconduct; (ii) commission of any act of fraud with respect to the Company; or (iii) conviction of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude.  No act or failure to act by you will be considered  willful  if done or omitted by you in good faith with reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.   Good Reason  means, for the purposes of this Agreement, your resignation within sixty (60) days after the occurrence any of the following events without your consent: (i) a material reduction in your duties that is inconsistent with your position at the time of the Date of Grant, (ii) any material reduction in your base annual salary or target annual bonus (other than in connection with a general decrease in the base salaries or target bonuses for all officers of Intuit), or (iii) a requirement by Intuit that you relocate your principal office to a facility more than 50 miles from your principal office on the Date of Grant; provided however, that with regard to (i) through (iii) you must provide Intuit with written notice of the event allegedly constituting  Good Reason,  and Intuit will have 15 days from the date it receives such written notice to cure such event.  If you do not execute the Release before the time that Shares are distributed to other Participants, then Shares will be distributed to you at the time the Release has become effective, provided that the Release becomes effective during the time period provided in this Section 1(d). 
    
           (e) 
    Corporate Transaction  :  In the event of a Corporate Transaction before the Vesting Date, the level of achievement of the TSR Goals will be based on the actual level of achievement of the TSR Goals, as certified by the Committee, for each completed Performance Period and will be determined as of the effective date of the Corporate Transaction based on the Comparison Group as constituted on such date (the  CIC Achievement Level ) for any incomplete Performance Period.  In addition, for any incomplete Performance Period, Intuit s ending stock price will be the sale price of the Shares in the Corporate Transaction and the ending stock price of the other Member Companies will be the average price of a share of common stock of a Member Company over the 30 trading days ending on the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, in each case adjusted for changes in capital structure.  This Award will vest immediately prior to the consummation of such Corporate Transaction based on the CIC Achievement Level.  Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(e) will be distributed as soon as reasonably possible after such determinations are complete.  For avoidance of doubt, with respect to any incomplete Performance Period, this provision is intended to result in you vesting in the number of Shares corresponding to the CIC Achievement Level, without Committee certification, provided that you are employed immediately prior to the consummation of a Corporate Transaction.  For purposes of this Award,  Corporate Transaction  is defined in Section 30(i) of the Plan; provided that such Corporate Transaction constitutes a  change in the ownership or effective control  of the Company or  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulations 1.409A-3(a)(5) and 1.409A-3(i). 
       
           (f) 
    For purposes of this Agreement, your Termination will be deemed to occur on the Termination Date, as defined in the Plan. 
       
           2. 
    Issuance of Shares under this Award  :  Subject to Section 4 of the Agreement, and except as described in the next sentence, the Company will issue you the Shares subject to this Award as soon as reasonably possible after the Vesting Date (but, to the extent that Section 409A of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code is applicable to you, in no case later than March 15   th    of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the Vesting Date occurs).  Subject to Section 6(k), in the event of a Termination pursuant to Sections 1(b) through 1(d) prior to the Vesting Date, Shares will be distributed as soon as reasonably possible after the Termination Date or, if later, the date that the Release becomes effective in accordance with Section 1(d) (but in no event later than March 15   th    after the calendar year in which the Termination Date or the effective date of the Release occurs).  Until the date the Shares are issued to you, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company.  You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to provide a written or electronic acknowledgement prior to the issuance of any Shares to you by the Company under this Agreement. 
       
           3. 
    Rights as a Stockholder; Dividend Equivalent Rights  :  You shall have no voting or other rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Award until such Shares have been issued to you.  Notwithstanding the preceding  

sentence, you shall be entitled to receive payment of the equivalent of any and all dividends declared by the Company on its Common Stock on each date on which dividends are paid on and after the Date of Grant of the Award in an amount equal to the amount of such dividends multiplied by the number of Shares underlying the then outstanding portion of the Award.  These dividend equivalents shall be paid upon the later of (a) the date dividends are paid to the common stockholders of the Company, or (b) the date the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such dividend equivalents are payable become vested and the underlying Shares are issued (it being understood that no dividend equivalents will be paid with respect to Shares underlying any Restricted Stock Units that do not vest, but that dividend equivalent rights equal to the dividends declared on the Company s Common Stock from and after the Date of Grant of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as and when such Restricted Stock Units vest and the underlying Shares are issued). 
    
           4. 
    Withholding Taxes  :  If you are subject to United States federal income and employment taxes, this Award is generally taxable upon vesting based on the Fair Market Value on the Vesting Date.  For further detail, and for information regarding taxation in other jurisdictions, you should refer to the Global Supplement, which is an attachment to and is incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  To the extent required by applicable law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, employment tax, social security tax, social insurance, payroll tax, contributions, payment on account or other withholding obligations that arise under this Award and, if applicable, any sale of Shares.  The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Award or to recognize any purported transfer of Shares until such obligations are satisfied.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined using a rate of up to the maximum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may also be satisfied by other methods including, but not limited to: (a) through a  same day sale  commitment from you and a FINRA Dealer meeting the requirements of the Company s  same day sale  procedures, (b) having the Company withhold amounts from amounts otherwise payable to you under the Company s payroll system, and (c) any other methods approved by the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a Section 16 Officer of the Company, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and you, these obligations will be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined as the minimum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  For purposes of this Award,  Fair Market Value  is defined in Section 30(m) of the Plan. 
       
  You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with this Award, regardless of any action the Company takes or any transaction pursuant to this section with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with this Award.  The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of this Award or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares underlying the Award.  The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure this Award to reduce or eliminate your tax liability or to ensure that the tax withholding is sufficient to entirely satisfy your tax liability arising from this Award. 
    
           5. 
    Disputes  :  Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, any adjustments to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with its authority under Section 4 of the Plan.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding. 
       
           6. 
    Other Matters  : 
       
           (a) 
    The Award granted to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Company or any Subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company to grant an award in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Company (or any Subsidiary or other affiliate) might grant an award in any future year or in any given amount.  Decisions regarding any future grants of an award, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
       
           (b) 
    As the grant of the Award is discretionary, the grant does not form part of your contract of employment.  If you are employed by any Company in the group other than the Company, the grant of the Award will not form a contractual relationship between you and the Company and will not form part of your contract of employment with the Subsidiary which employs you. 

(c) 
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if you change classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee, the Company may make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions of this Award, including reducing the number of Shares subject to this Award, in accordance with Company policy. 
       
           (d) 
    This Award is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation for services that you have rendered to the Company or any Subsidiaries (including, as applicable, your employer).  Further, this Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, payment in lieu of notice, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. 
       
           (e) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary.  The Company, and its officers or directors, do not guarantee or make any representation to you regarding the performance of the Common Stock.  The future value of the Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty. 
       
           (f) 
    Because this Agreement relates to terms and conditions under which you may be issued Shares and the Company is a Delaware corporation, an essential term of this Agreement is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other jurisdictions.  You acknowledge and agree that any action, suit, or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Award granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in Santa Clara County in the State of California. 
       
           (g) 
    Communications regarding the Plan and this Award may be made by electronic delivery through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.  You hereby acknowledge that you have read this provision and consent to the electronic delivery of the documents. 
       
           (h) 
    You hereby understand and acknowledge that your personal data may be collected, used and transferred, in electronic or other form, by and among, as applicable, your employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan.  This may include personal data regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the fact and conditions of your participation in the Plan, your name, gender, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, tax file number, social security number or other identification number, salary, tax information, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company and its Subsidiaries, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor and other personal data reasonably required for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (the  Data ).  For more information about your employer s collection and processing of your Data for this purpose, please see Intuit s Global Employee Privacy Policy, which can be found on the Company s Intranet or by contacting your local human resources representative. 
       
           (i) 
    Data Transfer for Administration of Plan. 
       
           (i) 
    You understand that certain Data may be transferred to the stock administrator, whose name and contact information can be found on the Company s Intranet (the  Stock Administrator ) and other third parties as necessary to enable or assist with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that such recipients may act as independent Data Controllers of your Data under applicable privacy laws and in such cases the third party will be responsible for the processing of the Data once it is in their possession or control. You acknowledge that such third parties may process your Data in the United States or in other countries with different, and in some cases less protective, data protection laws than in your country.   You acknowledge and understand that, where any such third party is operating as a Data Controller, that third party may collect additional Data from you in order to implement, administer and manage the Plan, and that third party s privacy policy will govern its collection, use and sharing of your Data. 
       
           (ii) 
    You acknowledge and understand that where any such third party is acting as an independent Data Controller, you will need to exercise your data rights under local law, as applicable, with the third party Data Controller directly. 

(j) 
    This Agreement, and any issuance of Shares hereunder, is intended to comply and shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Upon your Separation from Service, the Company shall determine whether any Shares issued to you in accordance with this Agreement could be determined to be payments from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan and whether you are a  specified employee  as of the applicable  

payment date (each as defined by Section 409A of the Code).  If you are determined to be a  specified employee  and any such payments are payable in connection with your Separation from Service, and are not exempt from Section 409A of the Code as a short-term deferral or otherwise, these payments, to the extent otherwise payable within six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service, will be paid in a lump sum on the earlier of: (i) the date that is six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service or (ii) the date of your death.  The foregoing six (6) month delay shall be applied if and only to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of taxes under Section 409A of the Code.  For purposes of this Agreement, a  Separation from Service  means an anticipated permanent reduction in the level of bona fide services to twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the payments to be made to you in accordance with this Agreement shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments. 
    
           7. 
    Miscellaneous  :  This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference) constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and supersedes all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award.  Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company.  Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives).  All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company, attn.: Stock Administration at 2535 Garcia Ave., Mountain View, CA 94043, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.  You acknowledge and agree that any such notices from the Company to you may also be delivered through the Company s electronic mail system (prior to your Termination Date) or at the last email address you provided to the Company (after your Termination Date). 
       
  Additional information about the Plan and this Award (including certain tax consequences related to the Award) is contained in the accompanying Prospectus. 
    
  The Company has signed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant. 
    
  INTUIT INC. 

By:  _______________________________________     
  [                                          ], President 
  and Chief Executive Officer 

Award No.   *** 
  INTUIT INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED 2005 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT 
  Restricted Stock Unit  
  (Performance-Based Vesting with Relative Total Shareholder Return Goals: CEO) 
  Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Intuit  or the  Company ), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ( Award ) pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), of the Company s common stock, $0.01 par value per share ( Common Stock  or  Shares ).  The maximum number of Shares that are subject to the Award and may become eligible to vest ( Maximum Shares ) is set forth below.  All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ( Agreement ) that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan.  This Agreement shall include any appendices, addenda or consents attached hereto or otherwise associated herewith.  This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference.  This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan.  If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply. 
    
  Name of Participant: ***           
  Maximum Shares:   200% of the Target Shares 
  Target Shares: ***   total (one-third of this number for each of the three overlapping Performance Periods) 
  Date of Grant:        ***       
  Vesting Date:        September 1, 2021 
    
  ***This information is as shown in the Restricted Stock Units section of the third party administrator s online portal. 
    
  Vesting Based on Achievement of Total Shareholder Return Goals  .  Subject to the service conditions included in this Agreement, vesting of this Award is based on Intuit s percentile rank of total shareholder return ( TSR ) among a group of comparator companies (the  Comparison Group ), as set forth on   Exhibit A   (the  TSR Goals ).  Actual performance against the TSR Goals is measured as follows: up to one-third of the Maximum Shares will be eligible to vest based on the actual performance against the TSR Goals as measured over the period beginning on August 1, 2018 and ending on July 31, 2019 (the  12 Month Performance Period ), up to one-third of the Maximum Shares will be eligible to vest based on the actual performance against the TSR Goals as measured over the period beginning on August 1, 2018 and ending on July 31, 2020 (the  24 Month Performance Period ), and up to one-third of the Maximum Shares will be eligible to be vest based on the actual performance against the TSR Goals as measured over the period beginning on August 1, 2018 and ending on July 31, 2021 (the  36 Month Performance Period  and together with the 12 Month Performance Period and the 24 Month Performance Period, the  Performance Periods  and each a  Performance Period ).  The actual performance against the TSR Goals for each Performance Period must be certified by the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of Intuit s Board of Directors ( Committee ) in order for any portion of this Award to be eligible to vest;   provided  ,   however  , that if Intuit s TSR is negative during a Performance Period, then the maximum Shares that the Committee can certify as eligible to vest for that Performance Period will be the Target Shares for that Performance Period.  The Committee will certify the results of the TSR Goals as soon as reasonably possible (the date of such certification for the respective Performance Period, the  Certification Date ) after each Performance Period.  Any portion of this Award that is eligible to vest based on the Committee s certification will be subject to continued service through the Vesting Date in order to become fully vested.  For avoidance of doubt, you must remain in continued service with Intuit through and including the Vesting Date in order to become vested in any portion of the Award that becomes eligible to vest based on the Committee s certification.  Any portion of this Award that is not eligible to vest based on the Committee s certification for the applicable Performance Period will terminate on the Certification Date of the respective Performance Period.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sections 1(b) through 1(e) provide certain circumstances in which you may vest in this Award before the Vesting Date and/or without certification of the TSR Goals by the Committee.  If any of Sections 1(b) through 1(e) apply, then any portion of this Award that does not vest pursuant to those sections will terminate. 
    
  Comparison Group  .  The Comparison Group will be the companies shown on   Exhibit B   (each, together with Intuit, a  Member Company  provided, however, that a company will be removed from the Comparison Group if, during a Performance Period, it ceases to have a class of equity securities that is both registered under the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 and actively traded on a U.S. public securities market (unless such cessation of such listing is due to any of the circumstances in (i) through (iv) of the following paragraph). 
    
  Definition of TSR  .   TSR  as applied to any Member Company means stock price appreciation from the beginning to the end of the applicable Performance Period, plus dividends and distributions made or declared (assuming such dividends or distributions are reinvested in the common stock of the Member Company) during such Performance Period, expressed as a  

percentage return.  Except as modified in Section 1(e), for purposes of computing TSR, the stock price at the beginning of a Performance Period will be the average price of a share of common stock of a Member Company over the 30 trading days beginning on August 1, 2018, and the stock price at the end of the Performance Period will be the average price of a share of common stock of a Member Company over the 30 trading days ending (i) July 31, 2019, for the 12 Month Performance Period, (ii) July 31, 2020, for the 24 Month Performance Period, and (iii) July 31, 2021 for the 36 Month Performance Period, adjusted for stock splits or similar changes in capital structure; provided, however, that TSR for a Member Company will be negative one hundred percent (-100%) if the Member Company: (i) files for bankruptcy, reorganization, or liquidation under any chapter of the U.S. Bankruptcy Code; (ii) is the subject of an involuntary bankruptcy proceeding that is not dismissed within 30 days; (iii) is the subject of a stockholder approved plan of liquidation or dissolution; or (iv) ceases to conduct substantial business operations.  For avoidance of doubt, the acquisition of a Member Company by another person or group of related persons by itself does not result in the Member Company being treated as ceasing to conduct substantial business operations. 
    
  1.    In the event of your Termination or a Corporate Transaction prior to the Vesting Date, the following provisions will govern the vesting of this Award: 
    
  (a)     Termination Generally  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the Vesting Date for any reason other than as expressly set forth in the other subsections of this Section 1 of the Agreement, this Award will terminate without having vested as to any of the Shares and you will have no right or claim to anything under this Award. 
    
  (b)     Termination due to Retirement  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the Vesting Date due to your Retirement, you will vest immediately on the date of your Retirement in a pro-rata portion of the Award, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by thirty-six (36) months, multiply this quotient (the  pro rata percentage ) by the sum of (i) the number of Shares that were to vest on the Vesting Date, subject to your continued employment, based on the actual level of achievement of the TSR Goals, as certified by the Committee, for each completed Performance Period, and (ii) 100% of the Target Shares that remain subject to any incomplete Performance Period, and round down to the nearest whole Share.  The Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  Subject to Section 6(k), Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(b) will be distributed to you as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of your Retirement.  For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the Termination of your employment with the Company after you have reached age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) full years of service with the Company (including any parent or Subsidiary).   
    
  (c)     Termination due to Death or Disability  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the Vesting Date due to your death or Disability after you have been actively employed by the Company for one year or more, this Award will vest immediately as to the sum of (i) the number of Shares that were to vest on the Vesting Date, assuming that you had continued employment until the Vesting Date, based on the actual level of achievement of the TSR Goals, as certified by the Committee, for each completed Performance Period, and (ii) 100% of the Target Shares that remain subject to any incomplete Performance Period.  The Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(c) will be distributed to you as soon as reasonably practicable following the date of your Termination due to your death or Disability.  For purposes of this Award,  Disability  is defined in Section 30(j) of the Plan. 
    
  (d)     Involuntary Termination  :  In the event of your Involuntary Termination before the Vesting Date, a pro rata portion of this Award will vest immediately on your Termination Date by applying the pro rata percentage to the sum of (i) the number of Shares that were to vest on the Vesting Date, assuming that you had continued employment until the Vesting Date, based on the actual level of achievement of the TSR Goals, as certified by the Committee, for each completed Performance Period, and (ii) 100% of the Target Shares that remain subject to any incomplete Performance Period, and rounding down to the nearest whole Share.  Subject to Section 6(k), Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(d) will be distributed to you as soon as reasonably possible after the effective date of a waiver and general release of claims executed by you in favor of the Company and certain related persons determined by the Company in the form presented by the Company ( Release ).  If you do not execute the Release within forty-five (45) days following your Termination Date or such longer period of time as may be required under applicable law, then you will not be entitled to the receipt of any Shares under this Section 1(d).  If the time period to execute and/or revoke the Release spans two calendar years, then, notwithstanding anything contained herein to the contrary, Shares to be distributed to you pursuant to this Section 1(d) will not be distributed to you until the second calendar year.  Involuntary Termination means, for purposes of this Agreement, either (A) your Termination by the Company without Cause, or (B) your resignation for Good Reason.   Cause  means, for purposes of this Agreement, (i) gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of your duties to the Company (other than as a result of a Disability) that has resulted or is likely to result in material  

damage to the Company, after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Board of Directors which specifically identifies the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties and you have been provided with a reasonable opportunity of not less than 30 days to cure any alleged gross negligence or willful misconduct; (ii) commission of any act of fraud with respect to the Company; or (iii) conviction of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude.  No act or failure to act by you will be considered  willful  if done or omitted by you in good faith with reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.   Good Reason  means, for the purposes of this Agreement, your resignation within sixty (60) days after the occurrence any of the following events without your consent: (i) a material reduction in your duties that is inconsistent with your position at the time of the Date of Grant, (ii) any material reduction in your base annual salary or target annual bonus (other than in connection with a general decrease in the base salaries or target bonuses for all officers of Intuit), or (iii) a requirement by Intuit that you relocate your principal office to a facility more than 50 miles from your principal office on the Date of Grant; provided however, that with regard to (i) through (iii) you must provide Intuit with written notice of the event allegedly constituting  Good Reason,  and Intuit will have 15 days from the date it receives such written notice to cure such event.  If you do not execute the Release before the time that Shares are distributed to other Participants,  then Shares will be distributed to you at the time the Release has become effective, provided that the Release becomes effective during the time period provided in this Section 1(d). 
    
  (e)     Corporate Transaction  :  In the event of a Corporate Transaction before the Vesting Date, the level of achievement of the TSR Goals will be based on the actual level of achievement of the TSR Goals, as certified by the Committee, for each completed Performance Period and will be determined as of the effective date of the Corporate Transaction based on the Comparison Group as constituted on such date (the  CIC Achievement Level ) for any incomplete Performance Period.  In addition, for any incomplete Performance Period, Intuit s ending stock price will be the sale price of the Shares in the Corporate Transaction and the ending stock price of the other Member Companies will be the average price of a share of common stock of a Member Company over the 30 trading days ending on the effective date of the Corporate Transaction, in each case adjusted for changes in capital structure.  This Award will vest immediately prior to the consummation of such Corporate Transaction based on the CIC Achievement Level.  Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(e) will be distributed as soon as reasonably possible after such determinations are complete.  For avoidance of doubt, with respect to any incomplete Performance Period, this provision is intended to result in you vesting in the number of Shares corresponding to the CIC Achievement Level, without Committee certification, provided that you are employed immediately prior to the consummation of a Corporate Transaction.  For purposes of this Award,  Corporate Transaction  is defined in Section 30(i) of the Plan; provided such Corporate Transaction constitutes a  change in the ownership or effective control  of the Company or  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulations 1.409A-3(a)(5) and 1.409A-3(i) ( 409A Change in Control ). 
    
  (f)  For purposes of this Agreement, your Termination will be deemed to occur on the Termination Date, as defined in the Plan. 
    
  2.      Automatic Deferral; Issuance of Shares under this Award  :  Subject to Section 4 of the Agreement, payment of the Award through the issuance of Shares that become vested as of the Vesting Date shall be automatically deferred until the earliest of: (a) the date that is one year following the Vesting Date; (b) Termination described in Section 1(c) above; or (c) the occurrence of a 409A Change in Control (the earliest such date, the  Settlement Date ).  For avoidance of doubt, the occurrence of a Corporate Transaction following the Vesting Date that is not a 409A Change in Control will not trigger the issuance of Shares prior to the date that is one year following the Vesting Date.  Subject to Section 6(k), in the event of a Termination pursuant to Sections 1(b) through 1(d) prior to the Vesting Date, Shares will be distributed as soon as reasonably possible after the Termination Date or, if later, the date that the Release becomes effective in accordance with Section 1(d) (but, to the extent that Section 409A of the Code is applicable to you, in no case later than March 15   th    of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the Termination Date or the effective date of the Release occurs).  In addition, upon the occurrence of an event described in Sections 1(b) through 1(d) after the Vesting Date, any Shares that previously became vested on the Vesting Date but have not yet been issued to you shall be issued by the Company as soon as reasonably possible after the occurrence of the event described in Sections 1(b) through 1(d), but in any event in compliance with Section 409A of the Code, including the provisions of Section 6(k) below.  Until the date the Shares are issued to you, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company.  You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to provide a written or electronic acknowledgement prior to the issuance of any Shares to you by the Company under this Agreement.  All issuances of Shares will be subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon your Termination by the Company for Cause, any portion of the Award that has not  

been previously settled will terminate, be forfeited, and you will have no further right or claim to anything under this Award. 
    
  3.      Rights as a Stockholder; Dividend Equivalent Rights  :  You shall have no voting or other rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Award until such Shares have been issued to you.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, you shall be entitled to receive payment of the equivalent of any and all dividends declared by the Company on its Common Stock on each date on which dividends are paid on and after the Date of Grant of the Award in an amount equal to the amount of such dividends multiplied by the number of Shares underlying the then outstanding portion of the Award.  These dividend equivalents shall be paid upon the later of (a) the date dividends are paid to the common stockholders of the Company, or (b) the date the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such dividend equivalents are payable become vested and the underlying Shares are issued (it being understood that no dividend equivalents will be paid with respect to Shares underlying any Restricted Stock Units that do not vest, but that dividend equivalent rights equal to the dividends declared on the Company s Common Stock from and after the Date of Grant of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as and when such Restricted Stock Units vest and the underlying Shares are issued). 
    
           4. 
    Withholding Taxes  :  If you are subject to United States federal income and employment taxes, this Award is generally taxable upon vesting based on the Fair Market Value on the Settlement Date; provided that this Award may become taxable for purposes of employment taxes upon vesting, if earlier than a Settlement Date.  For further detail, and for information regarding taxation in other jurisdictions, you should refer to the Global Supplement, which is an attachment to and is incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  To the extent required by applicable law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, employment tax, social security tax, social insurance, payroll tax, contributions, payment on account or other withholding obligations that arise under this Award and, if applicable, any sale of Shares.  The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Award or to recognize any purported transfer of Shares until such obligations are satisfied.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined using a rate of up to the maximum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may also be satisfied by other methods including, but not limited to: (a) through a  same day sale  commitment from you and a FINRA Dealer meeting the requirements of the Company s  same day sale  procedures, (b) having the Company withhold amounts from amounts otherwise payable to you under the Company s payroll system, and (c) any other methods approved by the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, since you are a Section 16 Officer of the Company, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and you, these obligations will be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined as the minimum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  For purposes of this Award,  Fair Market Value  is defined in Section 30(m) of the Plan. 
       
  You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with this Award, regardless of any action the Company takes or any transaction pursuant to this section with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with this Award.  The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of this Award or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares underlying the Award.  The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure this Award to reduce or eliminate your tax liability or to ensure that the tax withholding is sufficient to entirely satisfy your tax liability arising from this Award. 
    
  5.      Disputes  :  Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, any adjustments to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with its authority under Section 4 of the Plan.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding. 
    
  6.      Other Matters  : 
    
  (a)   The Award granted to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Company or any Subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company to grant an award in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Company (or any Subsidiary or other affiliate) might grant an award in  

any future year or in any given amount.  Decisions regarding any future grants of an award, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
    
           (b)  
    As the grant of the Award is discretionary, the grant does not form part of your contract of employment.  If you are employed by any Company in the group other than the Company, the grant of the Award will not form a contractual relationship between you and the Company and will not form part of your contract of employment with the Subsidiary which employs you. 
       
  (c)  Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if you change classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee, the Company may make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions of this Award, including reducing the number of Shares subject to this Award, in accordance with Company policy. 
    
           (d) 
    This Award is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation for services that you have rendered to the Company or any Subsidiaries (including, as applicable, your employer).  Further, this Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, payment in lieu of notice, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. 
       
  (e)   Your participation in the Plan is voluntary.  The Company, and its officers or directors, do not guarantee or make any representation to you regarding the performance of the Common Stock.  The future value of the Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty. 
    
           (f) 
    Because this Agreement relates to terms and conditions under which you may be issued Shares and the Company is a Delaware corporation, an essential term of this Agreement is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other jurisdictions.  You acknowledge and agree that any action, suit, or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Award granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in Santa Clara County in the State of California. 
       
           (g) 
    Communications regarding the Plan and this Award may be made by electronic delivery through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.  You hereby acknowledge that you have read this provision and consent to the electronic delivery of the documents. 
       
           (h) 
    You hereby understand and acknowledge that your personal data may be collected, used and transferred, in electronic or other form, by and among, as applicable, your employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan.  This may include personal data regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the fact and conditions of your participation in the Plan, your name, gender, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, tax file number, social security number or other identification number, salary, tax information, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company and its Subsidiaries, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor and other personal data reasonably required for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (the  Data ).  For more information about your employer s collection and processing of your Data for this purpose, please see Intuit s Global Employee Privacy Policy, which can be found on the Company s Intranet or by contacting your local human resources representative. 
       
           (i) 
    Data Transfer for Administration of Plan. 
       
           (i) 
    You understand that certain Data may be transferred to the stock administrator, whose name and contact information can be found on the Company s Intranet (the  Stock Administrator ) and other third parties as necessary to enable or assist with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that such recipients may act as independent Data Controllers of your Data under applicable privacy laws and in such cases the third party will be responsible for the processing of the Data once it is in their possession or control. You acknowledge that such third parties may process your Data in the United States or in other countries with different, and in some cases less protective, data protection laws than in your country.   You acknowledge and understand that, where any such third party is operating as a Data Controller, that third party may collect additional Data from you in order to implement, administer and manage the Plan, and that third party s privacy policy will govern its collection, use and sharing of your Data. 

(ii) 
    You acknowledge and understand that where any such third party is acting as an independent Data Controller, you will need to exercise your data rights under local law, as applicable, with the third party Data Controller directly. 
       
           (j) 
    This Agreement, and any issuance of Shares hereunder, is intended to comply and shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Upon your Separation from Service, the Company shall determine whether any Shares issued to you in accordance with this Agreement could be determined to be payments from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan and whether you are a  specified employee  as of the applicable payment date (each as defined by Section 409A of the Code).  If you are determined to be a  specified employee  and any such payments are payable in connection with your Separation from Service, and are not exempt from Section 409A of the Code as a short-term deferral or otherwise, these payments, to the extent otherwise payable within six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service, will be paid in a lump sum on the earlier of: (i) the date that is six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service or (ii) the date of your death.  The foregoing six (6) month delay shall be applied if and only to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of taxes under Section 409A of the Code.  For purposes of this Agreement, a  Separation from Service  means an anticipated permanent reduction in the level of bona fide services to twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the payments to be made to you in accordance with this Agreement shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments. 
       
  7.      Miscellaneous  :  This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference) constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and supersedes all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award.  Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company.  Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives).  All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company, attn.: Stock Administration at 2535 Garcia Ave., Mountain View, CA 94043, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.  You acknowledge and agree that any such notices from the Company to you may also be delivered through the Company s electronic mail system (prior to your Termination Date) or at the last email address you provided to the Company (after your Termination Date). 
    
  Additional information about the Plan and this Award (including certain tax consequences related to the Award) is contained in the accompanying Prospectus. 
    
  The Company has signed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant. 
    
  INTUIT INC. 

By:   /s/ ----------------------               
  [Name of officer executing the award agreement] 

Award No.   *** 
  INTUIT INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED 2005 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT 
  Restricted Stock Unit  
  (Service-Based Vesting with Threshold Goal: Executive Vice Presidents) 
  Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Intuit  or the  Company ), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ( Award ) pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), of the Company s common stock, $0.01 par value per share ( Common Stock  or  Shares ).  The number of Shares that are subject to the Award and may be earned by you ( Number of Shares ) is set forth below.  All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ( Agreement ) that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan.  This Agreement shall include any appendices, addenda or consents attached hereto or otherwise associated herewith.  This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference.  This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan.  If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply. 
    
           Name of Participant: 
    *** 
              Number of Shares: 
    *** 
     Date of Grant:            *** 
  First Vesting Date:        *** 
    
  ***This information is as shown in the Restricted Stock Units section of the third party administrator s online portal. 
    
  Vesting Based on Achievement of Threshold Performance and Service  .  This Award will be eligible to vest only if the threshold level of performance, as defined in Exhibit A (the  Threshold Goal ), is achieved and is certified by the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of Intuit s Board of Directors (the  Committee ).  If the Threshold Goal is not achieved and/or certified by the Committee, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, this Award will immediately terminate and you will not be entitled to receive any Shares under this Award.  If the Threshold Goal is achieved and certified by the Committee, then you will have the opportunity to vest in this Award as to 25% of the Number of Shares on July 1, 2019 (or, if later, the date that the Threshold Goal is certified), and as to 6.25% of the Number of Shares on each of October 1, December 31, April 1 and July 1 that follow the First Vesting Date (each a  Vesting Date ) until the Award is fully vested, provided, in each case, that you have not Terminated before the respective Vesting Dates.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or will be Retirement eligible in the calendar year in which the Date of Grant occurs, this Award will vest as to 12.5% of the Number of Shares on the First Vesting Date, and as to 6.25% of the Number of Shares on each April 1, July 1, October 1 and December 31 that follow the First Vesting Date (each a  Vesting Date,  if this provision applies), until the Award is fully vested, provided you have not Terminated before the respective Vesting Dates.  Further, and notwithstanding the foregoing, Sections 1(b) through 1(d) provide certain circumstances in which you may vest in all or a portion of this Award without certification of the Threshold Goal and/or before the foregoing Vesting Dates.  Any portion of this Award that does not vest, including pursuant to Sections 1(b) through 1(d), shall be cancelled and you will have no further right or claim thereunder. 
    
           1. 
    In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date, the following provisions will govern the vesting of this Award: 
       
           (a) 
    Termination Generally  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date for any reason other than as expressly set forth in the other subsections of this Section 1 of the Agreement, this Award immediately will stop vesting and will terminate, and you will have no further right or claim to anything under this Award (other than with respect to the portion of the Award that has previously vested). 
       
           (b) 
    Termination due to Retirement  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your Retirement, then, provided that the Threshold Goal is both met and certified by the Committee, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the Termination of your employment with the Company after you have reached age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) full years of service with the Company (including any parent or Subsidiary).  In the event that your Retirement occurs prior to the Committee s certification, and the Committee subsequently certifies the achievement of the Threshold Goal, Shares that become vested in accordance with this Section 1(b) will be distributed to you as soon as reasonably practicable on or following the first Vesting Date. 

(c) 
    Termination due to Death or Disability  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your death or Disability after you have been actively employed by the Company for one year or more, this Award will vest as to 100% of the Number of Shares on your Termination Date, minus any Shares in which you already have vested, regardless of whether the Threshold Goal has been met, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Disability  is defined in Section 30(j) of the Plan. 
       
           (d) 
    Termination On or Within One Year Following Corporate Transaction  :  In the event of your Termination by the Company or its successor on or within one year following the date of a Corporate Transaction and prior to the last Vesting Date, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, regardless of whether the Threshold Goal has been met, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Corporate Transaction  is defined in Section 30(i) of the Plan. 
       
           (e) 
    For purposes of this Agreement, your Termination will be deemed to occur on the Termination Date, as defined in the Plan. 
       
           2. 
    Issuance of Shares under this Award  :  Subject to Section 4 of the Agreement, the Company will issue you the Shares subject to this Award as soon as reasonably possible after any Vesting Date or any other date upon which this Award vests under Sections 1(a) through 1(d) (but, to the extent that Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) is applicable to you, in no case later than March 15   th    of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the vesting event occurs).  Until the date the Shares are issued to you, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company.  You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to provide a written or electronic acknowledgement prior to the issuance of any Shares to you by the Company under this Agreement. 
       
           3. 
    Rights as a Stockholder; Dividend Equivalent Rights  :  You shall have no voting or other rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Award until such Shares have been issued to you.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, you shall be entitled to receive payment of the equivalent of any and all dividends declared by the Company on its Common Stock on each date on which dividends are paid on and after the Date of Grant of the Award in an amount equal to the amount of such dividends multiplied by the number of Shares underlying the then outstanding portion of the Award.  These dividend equivalents shall be paid upon the later of (a) the date dividends are paid to the common stockholders of the Company, or (b) the date the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such dividend equivalents are payable become vested and the underlying Shares are issued (it being understood that no dividend equivalents will be paid with respect to Shares underlying any Restricted Stock Units that do not vest, but that dividend equivalent rights equal to the dividends declared on the Company s Common Stock from and after the Date of Grant of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as and when such Restricted Stock Units vest and the underlying Shares are issued). 
       
           4. 
    Withholding Taxes  :  If you are subject to United States federal income and employment taxes, this Award is generally taxable upon vesting based on the Fair Market Value on the date the Award (or portion thereof) vests.  For further detail, and for information regarding taxation in other jurisdictions, you should refer to the Global Supplement, which is an attachment to and is incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  To the extent required by applicable law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, employment tax, social security tax, social insurance, payroll tax, contributions, payment on account or other withholding obligations that arise under this Award and, if applicable, any sale of Shares.  The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Award or to recognize any purported transfer of Shares until such obligations are satisfied.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined using a rate of up to the maximum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may also be satisfied by other methods including, but not limited to: (a) through a  same day sale  commitment from you and a FINRA Dealer meeting the requirements of the Company s  same day sale  procedures, (b) having the Company withhold amounts from amounts otherwise payable to you under the Company s payroll system, and (c) any other methods approved by the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a Section 16 Officer of the Company, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and you, these obligations will be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax  

withholding obligations (determined as the minimum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  For purposes of this Award,  Fair Market Value  is defined in Section 30(m) of the Plan. 
    
  You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with this Award, regardless of any action the Company takes or any transaction pursuant to this section with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with this Award.  The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of this Award or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares underlying the Award that vest.  The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure this Award to reduce or eliminate your tax liability or to ensure that the tax withholding is sufficient to entirely satisfy your tax liability arising from this Award. 
    
           5. 
    Disputes  :  Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, any adjustments to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with its authority under Section 4 of the Plan.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding. 
       
           6. 
    Other Matters: 
       
           (a) 
    The Award granted to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Company or any Subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company to grant an award in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Company (or any Subsidiary or other affiliate) might grant an award in any future year or in any given amount.  Decisions regarding any future grants of an award, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
       
           (b) 
    As the grant of the Award is discretionary, the grant does not form part of your contract of employment.  If you are employed by any Company in the group other than the Company, the grant of the Award will not form a contractual relationship between you and the Company and will not form part of your contract of employment with the Subsidiary which employs you. 
       
           (c) 
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if you change classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee, the Company may make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions of this Award, including reducing the number of Shares subject to this Award, in accordance with Company policy. 
       
           (d) 
    This Award is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation for services that you have rendered to the Company or any Subsidiaries (including, as applicable, your employer).  Further, this Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, payment in lieu of notice, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses, long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. 
       
           (e) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary.  The Company, and its officers or directors, do not guarantee or make any representation to you regarding the performance of the Common Stock.  The future value of the Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty. 
       
           (f) 
    Because this Agreement relates to terms and conditions under which you may be issued Shares and the Company is a Delaware corporation, an essential term of this Agreement is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other jurisdictions.  You acknowledge and agree that any action, suit, or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Award granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in Santa Clara County in the State of California. 
       
           (g) 
    Communications regarding the Plan and this Award may be made by electronic delivery through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.  You hereby acknowledge that you have read this provision and consent to the electronic delivery of the documents. 
       
           (h) 
    You hereby understand and acknowledge that your personal data may be collected, used and transferred, in electronic or other form, by and among, as applicable, your employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan.  This may include personal data regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the fact and conditions of your participation in the Plan, your name, gender, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, tax file number, social  

security number or other identification number, salary, tax information, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company and its Subsidiaries, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor and other personal data reasonably required for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (the  Data ).  For more information about your employer s collection and processing of your Data for this purpose, please see Intuit s Global Employee Privacy Policy, which can be found on the Company s Intranet or by contacting your local human resources representative. 
    
           (i) 
    Data Transfer for Administration of Plan. 
       
           (i)  
    You understand that certain Data may be transferred to the stock administrator, whose name and contact information can be found on the Company s Intranet (the  Stock Administrator ) and other third parties as necessary to enable or assist with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that such recipients may act as independent Data Controllers of your Data under applicable privacy laws and in such cases the third party will be responsible for the processing of the Data once it is in their possession or control. You acknowledge that such third parties may process your Data in the United States or in other countries with different, and in some cases less protective, data protection laws than in your country.   You acknowledge and understand that, where any such third party is operating as a Data Controller, that third party may collect additional Data from you in order to implement, administer and manage the Plan, and that third party s privacy policy will govern its collection, use and sharing of your Data. 
       
           (ii) 
    You acknowledge and understand that where any such third party is acting as an independent Data Controller, you will need to exercise your data rights under local law, as applicable, with the third party Data Controller directly. 
       
           (j) 
    This Agreement, and any issuance of Shares hereunder, is intended to comply and shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Upon your Separation from Service, the Company shall determine whether any Shares issued to you in accordance with this Agreement could be determined to be payments from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan and whether you are a  specified employee  as of the applicable payment date (each as defined by Section 409A of the Code).  If you are determined to be a  specified employee  and any such payments are payable in connection with your Separation from Service, and are not exempt from Section 409A of the Code as a short-term deferral or otherwise, these payments, to the extent otherwise payable within six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service, will be paid in a lump sum on the earlier of: (i) the date that is six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service or (ii) the date of your death.  The foregoing six (6) month delay shall be applied if and only to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of taxes under Section 409A of the Code.  For purposes of this Agreement, a  Separation from Service  means an anticipated permanent reduction in the level of bona fide services to twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the payments to be made to you in accordance with this Agreement shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments. 
       
           7. 
    Miscellaneous  :  This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference) constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and supersedes all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award.  Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company.  Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives).  All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company, attn.: Stock Administration at 2535 Garcia Ave., Mountain View, CA 94043, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.  You acknowledge and agree that any such notices from the Company to you may also be delivered through the Company s electronic mail system (prior to your Termination Date) or at the last email address you provided to the Company (after your Termination Date). 
       
  Additional information about the Plan and this Award (including certain tax consequences related to the Award) is contained in the accompanying Prospectus. 
    
  The Company has signed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant. 

INTUIT INC. 

By:  ___________________________________     
  [                                     ], President 
  and Chief Executive Officer 

Award No.   *** 
  INTUIT INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED 2005 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT 
  Restricted Stock Unit 
  (Service-Based Vesting with Threshold Goal: CEO) 
  Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Intuit  or the  Company ), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ( Award ) pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), of the Company s common stock, $0.01 par value per share ( Common Stock  or  Shares ).  The number of Shares that are subject to the Award and may be earned by you ( Number of Shares ) is set forth below.  All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ( Agreement ) that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan.  This Agreement shall include any appendices, addenda or consents attached hereto or otherwise associated herewith.  This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference.  This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan.  If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply. 
    
           Name of Participant: 
    *** 
              Number of Shares: 
    *** 
     Date of Grant:            *** 
  First Vesting Date:        *** 
    
  ***This information is as shown in the Restricted Stock Units section of the third party administrator s online portal. 
    
  Vesting Based on Achievement of Threshold Performance and Service  .  This Award will be eligible to vest only if the threshold level of performance, as defined in Exhibit A (the  Threshold Goal ), is achieved and is certified by the Compensation and Organizational Development Committee of Intuit s Board of Directors (the  Committee ).  If the Threshold Goal is not achieved and/or certified by the Committee, except as expressly provided in this Agreement, this Award will immediately terminate and you will not be entitled to receive any Shares under this Award.  If the Threshold Goal is achieved and certified by the Committee, then you will have the opportunity to vest in this Award as to 25% of the Number of Shares on July 1, 2019 (or, if later, the date that the Threshold Goal is certified), and as to 6.25% of the Number of Shares on each of October 1, December 31, April 1 and July 1 that follow the First Vesting Date (each a  Vesting Date ) until the Award is fully vested, provided, in each case, you have not Terminated before the respective Vesting Dates.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or will be Retirement eligible in the calendar year in which the Date of Grant occurs, this Award will vest as to 12.5% of the Number of Shares on the First Vesting Date, and as to 6.25% of the Number of Shares on each April 1, July 1, October 1 and December 31 that follow the First Vesting Date (each a  Vesting Date,  if this provision applies), until the Award is fully vested, provided you have not Terminated before the respective Vesting Dates.  Further, and notwithstanding the foregoing, Sections 1(b) through 1(d) provide certain circumstances in which you may vest in all or a portion of this Award without certification of the Threshold Goal and/or before the foregoing Vesting Dates.  Any portion of this Award that does not vest, including pursuant to Sections 1(b) through 1(d), shall be cancelled and you will have no further right or claim thereunder. 
    
  1.    In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date, the following provisions will govern the vesting of this Award: 
    
  (a)     Termination Generally  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date for any reason other than as expressly set forth in the other subsections of this Section 1 of the Agreement, this Award immediately will stop vesting and will terminate, and you will have no further right or claim to anything under this Award (other than with respect to the portion of the Award that has previously vested). 
    
  (b)     Termination due to Retirement  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your Retirement, then, provided that the Threshold Goal is both met and certified by the Committee, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the Termination of your employment with the Company after you have reached age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) full years of service with the Company (including any parent or Subsidiary). 
    
  (c)     Termination due to Death or Disability  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your death or Disability after you have been actively employed by the Company for one year or more, this Award  

will vest as to 100% of the Number of Shares on your Termination Date, minus any Shares in which you already have vested, regardless of whether the Threshold Goal has been met, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Disability  is defined in Section 30(j) of the Plan. 
    
  (d)     Termination On or Within One Year Following Corporate Transaction  :  In the event of your Termination by the Company or its successor on or within one year following the date of a Corporate Transaction and prior to the last Vesting Date, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, regardless of whether the Threshold Goal has been met, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Corporate Transaction  is defined in Section 30(i) of the Plan. 
    
  (e)  For purposes of this Agreement, your Termination will be deemed to occur on the Termination Date, as defined in the Plan. 
    
           2. 
    Automatic Deferral; Issuance of Shares under this Award  : 
       
           (a) 
    Following a Vesting Date, and subject to Section 4 of the Agreement, the Company will issue you the Shares that became vested on such Vesting Date as soon as reasonably possible after the earliest of (i) the date that is one year following the applicable Vesting Date, (ii) the date of your death or termination of employment on account of Disability, or (iii) the occurrence of a Corporate Transaction that is a 409A Change in Control (as defined below).  In the event that the 409A Change in Control precedes such Vesting Date, the Company will issue you the Shares that become vested on such Vesting Date as soon as reasonably possible following such Vesting Date.  For avoidance of doubt, the occurrence of a Corporate Transaction that is not a 409A Change in Control will not trigger the issuance of Shares prior to the date that is one year following the applicable Vesting Date. 
       
           (b) 
    Upon the occurrence of an event described in Sections 1(b), 1(c) or 1(d), any Shares that become vested on account of the application of Sections 1(b), 1(c) or 1(d) will be issued to you by the Company as soon as reasonably possible after the occurrence thereof.  In addition, upon the occurrence of an event described in Sections 1(b), 1(c) or 1(d) after a Vesting Date, any Shares that previously became vested on account of the occurrence of such Vesting Date but have not yet been issued to you shall be issued by the Company as soon as reasonably possible after the occurrence of the event described in Section 1(b), 1(c) or 1(d), but in any event in compliance with Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ), including the provisions of Section 6(k) below. 
       
           (c) 
    A  409A Change in Control  shall mean a  change in the ownership or effective control  of the Company or  change in the ownership of a substantial portion of the assets  of the Company within the meaning of Treasury Regulations   1.409A-3(a)(5) and 1.409A-3(i). 
       
           (d) 
    For purposes of this Award, each date on which the shares are issued to you in respect of the Award is referred to as a  Settlement Date.   Until the date the Shares are issued to you, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company.  You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to provide a written or electronic acknowledgement prior to the issuance of any Shares to you by the Company under this Agreement.  All issuances of Shares will be subject to the requirements of Section 409A of the Code. 
       
           (e) 
    Notwithstanding the foregoing, upon your Termination by the Company for Cause (as defined below), any portion of the Award that has not been previously settled will terminate, be forfeited, and you will have no further right or claim to anything under this Award.   Cause  means, for purposes of this Agreement, (i) gross negligence or willful misconduct in the performance of your duties to the Company (other than as a result of a Disability) that has resulted or is likely to result in material damage to the Company, after a written demand for substantial performance is delivered to you by the Board of Directors which specifically identifies the manner in which you have not substantially performed your duties and you have been provided with a reasonable opportunity of not less than 30 days to cure any alleged gross negligence or willful misconduct; (ii) commission of any act of fraud with respect to the Company; or (iii) conviction of a felony or a crime involving moral turpitude.  No act or failure to act by you will be considered  willful  if done or omitted by you in good faith with reasonable belief that your action or omission was in the best interests of the Company.  If the term  Cause  is defined in a separate agreement between you and the Company setting forth the terms of your employment relationship with the Company, that definition of  Cause  shall apply in lieu of the definition set forth in this Section 2(e). 

3. 
    Rights as a Stockholder; Dividend Equivalent Rights  :  You shall have no voting or other rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Award until such Shares have been issued to you.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, you shall be entitled to receive payment of the equivalent of any and all dividends declared by the Company on its Common Stock on each date on which dividends are paid on and after the Date of Grant of the Award in an amount equal to the amount of such dividends multiplied by the number of Shares underlying the then outstanding portion of the Award.  These dividend equivalents shall be paid upon the later of (a) the date dividends are paid to the common stockholders of the Company, or (b) the date the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such dividend equivalents are payable become vested and the underlying Shares are issued (it being understood that no dividend equivalents will be paid with respect to Shares underlying any Restricted Stock Units that do not vest, but that dividend equivalent rights equal to the dividends declared on the Company s Common Stock from and after the Date of Grant of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as and when such Restricted Stock Units vest and the underlying Shares are issued). 
       
           4. 
    Withholding Taxes  :  If you are subject to United States federal income and employment taxes, this Award is generally taxable upon a Settlement Date based on the Fair Market Value on such date; provided that this Award may become taxable for purposes of employment taxes upon vesting, if earlier than a Settlement Date.  For further detail, and for information regarding taxation in other jurisdictions, you should refer to the Global Supplement, which is an attachment to and is incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  To the extent required by applicable law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, employment tax, social security tax, social insurance, payroll tax, contributions, payment on account or other withholding obligations that arise under this Award and, if applicable, any sale of Shares.  The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Award or to recognize any purported transfer of Shares until such obligations are satisfied.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined using a rate of up to the maximum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may also be satisfied by other methods including, but not limited to: (a) through a  same day sale  commitment from you and a FINRA Dealer meeting the requirements of the Company s  same day sale  procedures, (b) having the Company withhold amounts from amounts otherwise payable to you under the Company s payroll system, and (c) any other methods approved by the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, since you are a Section 16 Officer of the Company, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and you, these obligations will be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined as the minimum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  For purposes of this Award,  Fair Market Value  is defined in Section 30(m) of the Plan. 
       
  You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with this Award, regardless of any action the Company takes or any transaction pursuant to this section with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with this Award.  The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of this Award or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares underlying the Award that vest.  The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure this Award to reduce or eliminate your tax liability or to ensure that the tax withholding is sufficient to entirely satisfy your tax liability arising from this Award. 
    
           5. 
    Disputes  :  Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, any adjustments to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with its authority under Section 4 of the Plan.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding. 
       
           6. 
    Other Matters  : 
       
           (a) 
    The Award granted to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Company or any Subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company to grant an award in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Company (or any Subsidiary or other affiliate) might grant an award in any future year or in any given amount.  Decisions regarding any future grants of an award, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 

(b) 
    As the grant of the Award is discretionary, the grant does not form part of your contract of employment.  If you are employed by any Company in the group other than the Company, the grant of the Award will not form a contractual relationship between you and the Company and will not form part of your contract of employment with the Subsidiary which employs you. 
       
           (c) 
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if you change classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee, the Company may make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions of this Award, including reducing the number of Shares subject to this Award, in accordance with Company policy. 
       
           (d) 
    This Award is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation for services that you have rendered to the Company or any Subsidiaries (including, as applicable, your employer).  Further, this Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, payment in lieu of notice, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. 
       
           (e) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary.  The Company, and its officers or directors, do not guarantee or make any representation to you regarding the performance of the Common Stock.  The future value of the Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty. 
       
           (f) 
    Because this Agreement relates to terms and conditions under which you may be issued Shares and the Company is a Delaware corporation, an essential term of this Agreement is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other jurisdictions.  You acknowledge and agree that any action, suit, or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Award granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in Santa Clara County in the State of California. 
       
           (g) 
    Communications regarding the Plan and this Award may be made by electronic delivery through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.  You hereby acknowledge that you have read this provision and consent to the electronic delivery of the documents. 
       
           (h) 
    You hereby understand and acknowledge that your personal data may be collected, used and transferred, in electronic or other form, by and among, as applicable, your employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan.  This may include personal data regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the fact and conditions of your participation in the Plan, your name, gender, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, tax file number, social security number or other identification number, salary, tax information, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company and its Subsidiaries, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor and other personal data reasonably required for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (the  Data ).  For more information about your employer s collection and processing of your Data for this purpose, please see Intuit s Global Employee Privacy Policy, which can be found on the Company s Intranet or by contacting your local human resources representative. 
       
           (i) 
    Data Transfer for Administration of Plan. 
       
           (i) 
    You understand that certain Data may be transferred to the stock administrator, whose name and contact information can be found on the Company s Intranet (the  Stock Administrator ) and other third parties as necessary to enable or assist with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that such recipients may act as independent Data Controllers of your Data under applicable privacy laws and in such cases the third party will be responsible for the processing of the Data once it is in their possession or control. You acknowledge that such third parties may process your Data in the United States or in other countries with different, and in some cases less protective, data protection laws than in your country.   You acknowledge and understand that, where any such third party is operating as a Data Controller, that third party may collect additional Data from you in order to implement, administer and manage the Plan, and that third party s privacy policy will govern its collection, use and sharing of your Data. 
       
           (ii) 
    You acknowledge and understand that where any such third party is acting as an independent Data Controller, you will need to exercise your data rights under local law, as applicable, with the third party Data Controller directly. 

(j) 
    This Agreement, and any issuance of Shares hereunder, is intended to comply and shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Upon your Separation from Service, the Company shall determine whether any Shares issued to you in accordance with this Agreement could be determined to be payments from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan and whether you are a  specified employee  as of the applicable payment date (each as defined by Section 409A of the Code).  If you are determined to be a  specified employee  and any such payments are payable in connection with your Separation from Service, and are not exempt from Section 409A of the Code as a short-term deferral or otherwise, these payments, to the extent otherwise payable within six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service, will be paid in a lump sum on the earlier of: (i) the date that is six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service or (ii) the date of your death.  The foregoing six (6) month delay shall be applied if and only to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of taxes under Section 409A of the Code.  For purposes of this Agreement, a  Separation from Service  means an anticipated permanent reduction in the level of bona fide services to twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the payments to be made to you in accordance with this Agreement shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments. 
       
           7. 
    Miscellaneous  :  This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference) constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and supersedes all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award.  Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company.  Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives).  All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company, attn.: Stock Administration at 2535 Garcia Ave., Mountain View, CA 94043, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.  You acknowledge and agree that any such notices from the Company to you may also be delivered through the Company s electronic mail system (prior to your Termination Date) or at the last email address you provided to the Company (after your Termination Date). 
       
  Additional information about the Plan and this Award (including certain tax consequences related to the Award) is contained in the accompanying Prospectus. 
    
  The Company has signed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant. 
    
  INTUIT INC. 

By:    /S/ ----------------------                   
  [Name of officer executing the award agreement] 

Award No.   *** 
    
  INTUIT INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED 2005 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT 
  Non-Qualified Stock Option 
  New Hire, Promotion, Retention or Focal Grant 
  Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation (the  Company ), hereby grants you a stock option ( Option ), pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), to purchase shares of the Company s Common Stock, $0.01 par value per share ( Common Stock  or  Shares ), as described below.  All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ( Agreement ) that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan.  This Agreement shall include any appendices, addenda or consents attached hereto or otherwise associated herewith.  This Option is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference.  This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan.  If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply. 
  Name of Participant:        *** 
  Number of Shares:        *** 
  Exercise Price Per Share:        *** 
  Date of Grant:        *** 
  First Vesting Date:        *** 
  Expiration Date:        *** 
    
  *** The above information is as shown in the Stock Options section of the third party administrator s online portal. 
    
           Vesting Schedule: 
    So long as you are providing services to the Company, 25% of the Shares will vest on the First Vesting Date; then 2 1/12% of the Shares will vest on each monthly anniversary of the first Vesting Date until 100% vested. 
       
           1. 
    Termination  :  On your Termination, this Option will either cease to vest or, as provided in Section 5.6 of the Plan, accelerate in full if you have been actively employed by the Company for one year or more and become Disabled or die.  Vesting may also be suspended in accordance with Company policies, as described in Sections 5.3 and 5.6 of the Plan. 
       
  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your Retirement, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share. For purposes of this Option,  Retirement  means the Termination of your employment with the Company after you have reached age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) full years of service with the Company (including any parent or Subsidiary). 
    
  In the event of your Termination by the Company or its successor on or within one year following the date of a Corporate Transaction and prior to the final Vesting Date, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share.  For purposes of this Option,  Corporate Transaction  is defined in Section 30(i) of the Plan. 
    
  For purposes of this Agreement, your Termination will be deemed to occur on the Termination Date, as defined in the Plan. 
           2. 
    Option Exercise  : 
              (a) 
    To exercise this Option, you must follow the exercise procedures established by the Company, as described in Section 5.5 of the Plan.  This Option may be exercised only with respect to vested Shares.  Payment of the Exercise Price for the Shares may be made in cash (by check) and/or, if a public market exists for the Company s Common Stock, by means of a Same-Day-Sale Commitment or Margin Commitment from you and a FINRA Dealer meeting the requirements of the Company s  same day sale  procedures.  You understand that the Company may be required to withhold taxes upon exercise of this Option. 
              (b) 
    Subject to the exercise procedures established by the Company, the last day this Option may be exercised is seven years from the Date of Grant which is the Expiration Date.  If your Termination Date occurs before the Expiration Date, this Option will expire as to all unvested Shares subject to the Option on your Termination Date.  Following your Termination Date, this Option may be exercised with respect to vested Shares during the following post-termination exercise periods: 

a. 
    Following your Termination due to your Retirement or to your Disability, this Option may be exercised with respect to vested Shares no later than twelve (12) months after the Termination Date; 
              b. 
    Following your Termination due to your death, or upon your death if it occurs within three (3) months following your Termination Date, this Option may be exercised with respect to vested Shares no later than eighteen (18) months after the Termination Date; 
              c. 
    Following your Termination for any other reason, this Option may be exercised with respect to vested Shares no later than ninety (90) days after the Termination Date. 
     Notwithstanding the foregoing, no portion of this Option may be exercised after the Expiration Date.  To the extent this Option is not exercised before the end of the applicable post-termination exercise period, in accordance with the exercise procedures established by the Company, the Option will expire as to all Shares remaining subject thereto. 
    
           3. 
    Withholding Taxes  :  If you are subject to United States federal income and employment taxes, this Option is generally taxable upon exercise based on the Fair Market Value on the date the Option (or portion thereof) vests.  For further detail, and for information regarding taxation in other jurisdictions, you should refer to the Global Supplement, which is an attachment to and is incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  To the extent required by applicable law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, employment tax, social security tax, social insurance, payroll tax, contributions, payment on account or other withholding obligations that arise under this Option and, if applicable, any sale of Shares.  The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Option or to recognize any purported transfer of Shares until such obligations are satisfied.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may also be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Option that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined using a rate of up to the maximum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Option.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may otherwise be satisfied by other methods including, but not limited to: (a) through a  same day sale  commitment from the you and a FINRA Dealer meeting the requirements of the Company s  same day sale  procedures, (b) having the Company withhold amounts from amounts otherwise payable to you under the Company s payroll system, and (c) any other methods approved by the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a Section 16 Officer of the Company, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and you, these obligations will be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Option that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined as the minimum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Option.  For purposes of this Option,  Fair Market Value  is defined in Section 30(m) of the Plan. 
       
  You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with this Option, regardless of any action the Company takes or any transaction pursuant to this section with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with this Option.  The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or exercise of this Option or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares underlying the Option that vest and are exercised.  The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure this Option to reduce or eliminate your tax liability or to ensure that the tax withholding is sufficient to entirely satisfy your tax liability arising from this Option. 
    
           4. 
    Disputes  :  Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, any adjustments to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with its authority under Section 4 of the Plan.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding. 
       
           5. 
    Other Matters  : 
       
           (a) 
    The Option granted to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Company or any Subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company to grant an award in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Company (or any Subsidiary or other affiliate) might grant an award in any future year or in any given amount.  Decisions regarding any future grants of an award, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
       
           (b) 
    As the grant of the Option is discretionary, the grant does not form part of your contract of employment.  If you are employed by any Company in the group other than the Company, the grant of the Option will not form a  

contractual relationship between you and the Company and will not form part of your contract of employment with the Subsidiary which employs you. 
    
           (c) 
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if you change classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee, the Company may make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions of this Option, including reducing the number of Shares subject to this Option, in accordance with Company policy. 
       
           (d) 
    This Option is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation for services that you have rendered to the Company or any Subsidiaries (including, as applicable, your employer).  Further, this Option is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, payment in lieu of notice, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. 
       
           (e) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary.  The Company, and its officers or directors, do not guarantee or make any representation to you regarding the performance of the Common Stock.  The future value of the Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty. 
       
           (f) 
    Because this Agreement relates to terms and conditions under which you may be issued Shares and the Company is a Delaware corporation, an essential term of this Agreement is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other jurisdictions.  You acknowledge and agree that any action, suit, or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Option granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in Santa Clara County in the State of California. 
       
           (g) 
    Communications regarding the Plan and this Option may be made by electronic delivery through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.  You hereby acknowledge that you have read this provision and consent to the electronic delivery of the documents. 
       
           6. 
    Data Privacy  : 
       
           (a) 
    You hereby understand and acknowledge that your personal data may be collected, used and transferred, in electronic or other form, by and among, as applicable, your employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan.  This may include personal data regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the fact and conditions of your participation in the Plan, your name, gender, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, tax file number, social security number or other identification number, salary, tax information, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company and its Subsidiaries, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor and other personal data reasonably required for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (the  Data ).  For more information about your employer s collection and processing of your Data for this purpose, please see Intuit s Global Employee Privacy Policy, which can be found on the Company s Intranet or by contacting your local human resources representative. 
       
           (b) 
    Data Transfer for Administration of Plan. 
       
           (i) 
    You understand that certain Data may be transferred to the stock administrator, whose name and contact information can be found on the Company s Intranet (the  Stock Administrator ) and other third parties as necessary to enable or assist with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that such recipients may act as independent Data Controllers of your Data under applicable privacy laws and in such cases the third party will be responsible for the processing of the Data once it is in their possession or control. You acknowledge that such third parties may process your Data in the United States or in other countries with different, and in some cases less protective, data protection laws than in your country.   You acknowledge and understand that, where any such third party is operating as a Data Controller, that third party may collect additional Data from you in order to implement, administer and manage the Plan, and that third party s privacy policy will govern its collection, use and sharing of your Data. 
       
           (ii) 
    You acknowledge and understand that where any such third party is acting as an independent Data Controller, you will need to exercise your data rights under local law, as applicable, with the third party Data Controller directly. 

7. 
    Miscellaneous  :  This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference) constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Option, and supersedes all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Option.  Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company.  Subject to the restrictions on transfer of the Option described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives).  All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company, attn.: Stock Administration, at 2535 Garcia Ave., Mountain View, CA 94043, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.  You acknowledge and agree that any such notices from the Company to you may also be delivered through the Company s electronic mail system (prior to your Termination Date) or at the last email address you provided to the Company (after your Termination Date). 
     Additional information about the Plan and this Option (including certain tax consequences of exercising the Option and disposing of the Shares) is contained in the accompanying Prospectus. 
  The Company has signed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant. 
  INTUIT INC. 

By:  ____________________________     
  [                                           ], President and 
  Chief Executive Officer 

Award No.   *** 
  INTUIT INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED 2005 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT 
  Restricted Stock Unit  
  (Service-Based Vesting) 
  Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Intuit  or the  Company ), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ( Award ) pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), of the Company s common stock, $0.01 par value per share ( Common Stock  or  Shares ).  The number of Shares that are subject to the Award and may be earned by you ( Number of Shares ) is set forth below.  All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ( Agreement ) that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan.  This Agreement shall include any appendices, addenda or consents attached hereto or otherwise associated herewith.  This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference.  This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan.  If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply. 
    
           Name of Participant: 
    *** 
              Number of Shares: 
    *** 
     Date of Grant:            *** 
  First Vesting Date:        *** 
    
  ***This information is as shown in the Restricted Stock Units section of the third party administrator s online portal. 
    
  Subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth in this Agreement, this Award will vest as to 25% of the Number of Shares on the First Vesting Date and as to 6.25% of the Number of Shares on each October 1, December 31, April 1 and July 1 that follow the First Vesting Date (each a  Vesting Date ), until the Award is fully vested, provided you have not Terminated before the respective Vesting Dates.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are or will be Retirement eligible in the calendar year in which the Date of Grant occurs, this Award will vest as to 12.5% of the Number of Shares on the First Vesting Date, and as to 6.25% of the Number of Shares on each April 1, July 1, October 1 and December 31 that follow the First Vesting Date (each a  Vesting Date,  if this provision applies), until the Award is fully vested, provided you have not Terminated before the respective Vesting Dates.  Further, and notwithstanding the foregoing, Sections 1(b) through 1(d) provide certain circumstances in which you may vest in all or a portion of this Award before the foregoing Vesting Dates.  Any portion of this Award that does not vest, including pursuant to Sections 1(b) through 1(d), shall be cancelled and you will have no further right or claim thereunder. 
    
           1. 
    In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date, the following provisions will govern the vesting of this Award: 
       
           (a) 
    Termination Generally  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date for any reason other than as expressly set forth in the other subsections of this Section 1 of the Agreement, this Award immediately will stop vesting and will terminate, and you will have no further right or claim to anything under this Award (other than with respect to the portion of the Award that has previously vested). 
       
           (b) 
    Termination due to Retirement  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your Retirement, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the Termination of your employment with the Company after you have reached age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) full years of service with the Company (including any parent or Subsidiary).  
       
           (c) 
    Termination due to Death or Disability  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your death or Disability after you have been actively employed by the Company for one year or more, this Award will vest as to 100% of the Number of Shares on your Termination Date, minus any Shares in which you already have vested, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Disability  is defined in Section 30(j) of the Plan. 

(d) 
    Termination On or Within One Year Following Corporate Transaction  :  In the event of your Termination by the Company or its successor on or within one year following the date of a Corporate Transaction and prior to the final Vesting Date, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Corporate Transaction  is defined in Section 30(i) of the Plan. 
       
           (e) 
    For purposes of this Agreement, your Termination will be deemed to occur on the Termination Date, as defined in the Plan. 
       
           2. 
    Issuance of Shares under this Award  :  Subject to Section 4 of the Agreement, the Company will issue you the Shares subject to this Award as soon as reasonably possible after any Vesting Date or any other date upon which this Award vests under Sections 1(a) through 1(d) (but, to the extent that Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) is applicable to you, in no case later than March 15   th    of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the vesting event occurs).  Until the date the Shares are issued to you, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company.  You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to provide a written or electronic acknowledgement prior to the issuance of any Shares to you by the Company under this Agreement. 
       
           3. 
    Rights as a Stockholder; Dividend Equivalent Rights  :  You shall have no voting or other rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Award until such Shares have been issued to you.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, you shall be entitled to receive payment of the equivalent of any and all dividends declared by the Company on its Common Stock on each date on which dividends are paid on and after the Date of Grant of the Award in an amount equal to the amount of such dividends multiplied by the number of Shares underlying the then outstanding portion of the Award.  These dividend equivalents shall be paid upon the later of (a) the date dividends are paid to the common stockholders of the Company, or (b) the date the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such dividend equivalents are payable become vested and the underlying Shares are issued (it being understood that no dividend equivalents will be paid with respect to Shares underlying any Restricted Stock Units that do not vest, but that dividend equivalent rights equal to the dividends declared on the Company s Common Stock from and after the Date of Grant of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as and when such Restricted Stock Units vest and the underlying Shares are issued). 
       
           4. 
    Withholding Taxes  :  If you are subject to United States federal income and employment taxes, this Award is generally taxable upon vesting based on the Fair Market Value on the date the Award (or portion thereof) vests.  For further detail, and for information regarding taxation in other jurisdictions, you should refer to the Global Supplement, which is an attachment to and is incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  To the extent required by applicable law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, employment tax, social security tax, social insurance, payroll tax, contributions, payment on account or other withholding obligations that arise under this Award and, if applicable, any sale of Shares.  The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Award or to recognize any purported transfer of Shares until such obligations are satisfied.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined using a rate of up to the maximum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may also be satisfied by other methods including, but not limited to: (a) through a  same day sale  commitment from you and a FINRA Dealer meeting the requirements of the Company s  same day sale  procedures, (b) having the Company withhold amounts from amounts otherwise payable to you under the Company s payroll system, and (c) any other methods approved by the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a Section 16 Officer of the Company, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and you, these obligations will be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined as the minimum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  For purposes of this Award,  Fair Market Value  is defined in Section 30(m) of the Plan. 
       
  You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with this Award, regardless of any action the Company takes or any transaction pursuant to this section with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with this Award.  The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax  

withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of this Award or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares underlying the Award that vest.  The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure this Award to reduce or eliminate your tax liability or to ensure that the tax withholding is sufficient to entirely satisfy your tax liability arising from this Award. 
    
           5. 
    Disputes  :  Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, any adjustments to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with its authority under Section 4 of the Plan.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding. 
       
           6. 
    Other Matters  : 
       
           (a) 
    The Award granted to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Company or any Subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company to grant an award in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Company (or any Subsidiary or other affiliate) might grant an award in any future year or in any given amount.  Decisions regarding any future grants of an award, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
       
           (b 
    As the grant of the Award is discretionary, the grant does not form part of your contract of employment.  If you are employed by any Company in the group other than the Company, the grant of the Award will not form a contractual relationship between you and the Company and will not form part of your contract of employment with the Subsidiary which employs you. 
       
           (c) 
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if you change classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee, the Company may make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions of this Award, including reducing the number of Shares subject to this Award, in accordance with Company policy. 
       
           (d) 
    This Award is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation for services that you have rendered to the Company or any Subsidiaries (including, as applicable, your employer).  Further, this Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, payment in lieu of notice, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. 
       
           (e) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary.  The Company, and its officers or directors, do not guarantee or make any representation to you regarding the performance of the Common Stock.  The future value of the Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty. 
       
           (f) 
    Because this Agreement relates to terms and conditions under which you may be issued Shares and the Company is a Delaware corporation, an essential term of this Agreement is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other jurisdictions.  You acknowledge and agree that any action, suit, or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Award granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in Santa Clara County in the State of California. 
       
           (g) 
    Communications regarding the Plan and this Award may be made by electronic delivery through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.  You hereby acknowledge that you have read this provision and consent to the electronic delivery of the documents. 
       
           (h) 
    You hereby understand and acknowledge that your personal data may be collected, used and transferred, in electronic or other form, by and among, as applicable, your employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. This may include personal data regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the fact and conditions of your participation in the Plan, your name, gender, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, tax file number, social security number or other identification number, salary, tax information, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company and its Subsidiaries, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor and other personal data reasonably required for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (the  Data ).  For more information about your employer s collection and processing of your Data for this purpose, please see Intuit s Global Employee Privacy Policy, which can be found on the Company s Intranet or by contacting your local human resources representative. 

(i) 
    Data Transfer for Administration of Plan. 
       
           (i) 
    You understand that certain Data may be transferred to the stock administrator, whose name and contact information can be found on the Company s Intranet (the  Stock Administrator ) and other third parties as necessary to enable or assist with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You understand that such recipients may act as independent Data Controllers of your Data under applicable privacy laws and in such cases the third party will be responsible for the processing of the Data once it is in their possession or control. You acknowledge that such third parties may process your Data in the United States or in other countries with different, and in some cases less protective, data protection laws than in your country.   You acknowledge and understand that, where any such third party is operating as a Data Controller, that third party may collect additional Data from you in order to implement, administer and manage the Plan, and that third party s privacy policy will govern its collection, use and sharing of your Data.   
       
           (ii) 
     You acknowledge and understand that where any such third party is acting as an independent Data Controller, you will need to exercise your data rights under local law, as applicable, with the third party Data Controller directly. 
       
           (j) 
    This Agreement, and any issuance of Shares hereunder, is intended to comply and shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Upon your Separation from Service, the Company shall determine whether any Shares issued to you in accordance with this Agreement could be determined to be payments from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan and whether you are a  specified employee  as of the applicable payment date (each as defined by Section 409A of the Code).  If you are determined to be a  specified employee  and any such payments are payable in connection with your Separation from Service, and are not exempt from Section 409A of the Code as a short-term deferral or otherwise, these payments, to the extent otherwise payable within six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service, will be paid in a lump sum on the earlier of: (i) the date that is six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service or (ii) the date of your death.  The foregoing six (6) month delay shall be applied if and only to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of taxes under Section 409A of the Code.  For purposes of this Agreement, a  Separation from Service  means an anticipated permanent reduction in the level of bona fide services to twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the payments to be made to you in accordance with this Agreement shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments. 
       
           7. 
    Miscellaneous  :  This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference) constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and supersedes all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award.  Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company.  Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives).  All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company, attn.: Stock Administration at 2535 Garcia Ave., Mountain View, CA 94043, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.  You acknowledge and agree that any such notices from the Company to you may also be delivered through the Company s electronic mail system (prior to your Termination Date) or at the last email address you provided to the Company (after your Termination Date). 
       
  Additional information about the Plan and this Award (including certain tax consequences related to the Award) is contained in the accompanying Prospectus. 
    
  The Company has signed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant. 
    
  INTUIT INC. 

By:  ____________________________     
  [                                    ], President 
  and Chief Executive Officer 

Award No.   *** 
  INTUIT INC. AMENDED AND RESTATED 2005 EQUITY INCENTIVE PLAN GRANT AGREEMENT 
  Restricted Stock Unit  
  (Service-Based Vesting) 
  Intuit Inc., a Delaware corporation ( Intuit  or the  Company ), hereby grants you a restricted stock unit award ( Award ) pursuant to the Company s Amended and Restated 2005 Equity Incentive Plan (the  Plan ), of the Company s common stock, $0.01 par value per share ( Common Stock  or  Shares ).  The number of Shares that are subject to the Award and may be earned by you ( Number of Shares ) is set forth below.  All capitalized terms in this Grant Agreement ( Agreement ) that are not defined in this Agreement have the meanings given to them in the Plan.  This Agreement shall include any appendices, addenda or consents attached hereto or otherwise associated herewith.  This Award is subject to all of the terms and conditions of the Plan, which is incorporated into this Agreement by reference.  This Agreement is not meant to interpret, extend, or change the Plan in any way, or to represent the full terms of the Plan.  If there is any discrepancy, conflict or omission between this Agreement and the provisions of the Plan, the provisions of the Plan shall apply. 
    
           Name of Participant: 
    *** 
              Number of Shares: 
    *** 
     Date of Grant:            *** 
  First Vesting Date:        *** 
    
  ***This information is as shown in the Restricted Stock Units section of the third party administrator s online portal. 
    
  Subject to the forfeiture provisions set forth in this Agreement, this Award will vest as to 25% of the Number of Shares on the First Vesting Date and as to 6.25% of the Number of Shares on each three month anniversary thereafter (each a  Vesting Date ), until the Award is fully vested, provided you have not Terminated before the respective Vesting Dates.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, Sections 1(b) through 1(d) provide certain circumstances in which you may vest in all or a portion of this Award before the foregoing Vesting Dates.  Any portion of this Award that does not vest, including pursuant to Sections 1(b) through 1(d), shall be cancelled and you will have no further right or claim thereunder. 
    
           1. 
    In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date, the following provisions will govern the vesting of this Award: 
       
           (a) 
    Termination Generally  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date for any reason other than as expressly set forth in the other subsections of this Section 1 of the Agreement, this Award immediately will stop vesting and will terminate, and you will have no further right or claim to anything under this Award (other than with respect to the portion of the Award that has previously vested). 
       
           (b) 
    Termination due to Retirement  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your Retirement, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the nearest whole Share, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Retirement  means the Termination of your employment with the Company after you have reached age fifty-five (55) and completed ten (10) full years of service with the Company (including any parent or Subsidiary).  
       
           (c) 
    Termination due to Death or Disability  :  In the event of your Termination prior to the last Vesting Date due to your death or Disability after you have been actively employed by the Company for one year or more, this Award will vest as to 100% of the Number of Shares on your Termination Date, minus any Shares in which you already have vested, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Disability  is defined in Section 30(j) of the Plan. 
       
           (d) 
    Termination On or Within One Year Following Corporate Transaction  :  In the event of your Termination by the Company or its successor on or within one year following the date of a Corporate Transaction and prior to the final Vesting Date, you will vest in a pro-rata portion of the Number of Shares, to be calculated as follows: divide your number of full months of service since the Date of Grant by forty-eight (48) months, multiply that quotient by the Number of Shares, then subtract any Shares in which you already have vested, and round down to the  

nearest whole Share, and the Vesting Date under this Agreement will be your Termination Date.  For purposes of this Award,  Corporate Transaction  is defined in Section 30(i) of the Plan. 
    
           (e) 
    For purposes of this Agreement, your Termination will be deemed to occur on the Termination Date, as defined in the Plan. 
       
           2. 
    Issuance of Shares under this Award  :  Subject to Section 4 of the Agreement, the Company will issue you the Shares subject to this Award as soon as reasonably possible after any Vesting Date or any other date upon which this Award vests under Sections 1(a) through 1(d) (but, to the extent that Section 409A of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended (the  Code ) is applicable to you, in no case later than March 15   th    of the calendar year after the calendar year in which the vesting event occurs).  Until the date the Shares are issued to you, you will have no rights as a stockholder of the Company.  You acknowledge and agree that you may be required to provide a written or electronic acknowledgement prior to the issuance of any Shares to you by the Company under this Agreement. 
       
           3. 
    Rights as a Stockholder; Dividend Equivalent Rights  :  You shall have no voting or other rights as a stockholder with respect to the Shares underlying the Award until such Shares have been issued to you.  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, you shall be entitled to receive payment of the equivalent of any and all dividends declared by the Company on its Common Stock on each date on which dividends are paid on and after the Date of Grant of the Award in an amount equal to the amount of such dividends multiplied by the number of Shares underlying the then outstanding portion of the Award.  These dividend equivalents shall be paid upon the later of (a) the date dividends are paid to the common stockholders of the Company, or (b) the date the Restricted Stock Units with respect to which such dividend equivalents are payable become vested and the underlying Shares are issued (it being understood that no dividend equivalents will be paid with respect to Shares underlying any Restricted Stock Units that do not vest, but that dividend equivalent rights equal to the dividends declared on the Company s Common Stock from and after the Date of Grant of the unvested Restricted Stock Units shall be paid as and when such Restricted Stock Units vest and the underlying Shares are issued). 
       
           4. 
    Withholding Taxes  :  If you are subject to United States federal income and employment taxes, this Award is generally taxable upon vesting based on the Fair Market Value on the date the Award (or portion thereof) vests.  For further detail, and for information regarding taxation in other jurisdictions, you should refer to the Global Supplement, which is an attachment to and is incorporated by reference into this Agreement.  To the extent required by applicable law, you shall make arrangements satisfactory to the Company for the payment and satisfaction of any income tax, employment tax, social security tax, social insurance, payroll tax, contributions, payment on account or other withholding obligations that arise under this Award and, if applicable, any sale of Shares.  The Company shall not be required to issue Shares pursuant to this Award or to recognize any purported transfer of Shares until such obligations are satisfied.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined using a rate of up to the maximum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  Subject to the Company s discretion and in compliance with applicable laws, these obligations may also be satisfied by other methods including, but not limited to: (a) through a  same day sale  commitment from you and a FINRA Dealer meeting the requirements of the Company s  same day sale  procedures, (b) having the Company withhold amounts from amounts otherwise payable to you under the Company s payroll system, and (c) any other methods approved by the Company.  Notwithstanding the foregoing, if you are a Section 16 Officer of the Company, unless otherwise agreed to by the Company and you, these obligations will be satisfied by the Company withholding a number of Shares that would otherwise be issued under this Award that the Company determines has a Fair Market Value sufficient to meet the tax withholding obligations (determined as the minimum statutory rate in the applicable jurisdictions), including but not limited to withholding with respect to income and/or employment taxes on this Award, including any stock-settled dividend equivalent rights paid with respect to any Shares underlying this Award.  For purposes of this Award,  Fair Market Value  is defined in Section 30(m) of the Plan. 
       
  You are ultimately liable and responsible for all taxes owed by you in connection with this Award, regardless of any action the Company takes or any transaction pursuant to this section with respect to any tax withholding obligations that arise in connection with this Award.  The Company makes no representation or undertaking regarding the treatment of any tax withholding in connection with the grant, issuance, vesting or settlement of this Award or the subsequent sale of any of the Shares underlying the Award that vest.  The Company does not commit and is under no obligation to structure this Award to reduce or eliminate your tax liability or to ensure that the tax withholding is sufficient to entirely satisfy your tax liability arising from this Award. 

5. 
    Disputes  :  Any question concerning the interpretation of this Agreement, any adjustments to be made thereunder, and any controversy that may arise under this Agreement, shall be determined by the Committee in accordance with its authority under Section 4 of the Plan.  Such decision by the Committee shall be final and binding. 
       
           6. 
    Other Matters  : 
       
           (a) 
    The Award granted to an employee in any one year, or at any time, does not obligate the Company or any Subsidiary or other affiliate of the Company to grant an award in any future year or in any given amount and should not create an expectation that the Company (or any Subsidiary or other affiliate) might grant an award in any future year or in any given amount.  Decisions regarding any future grants of an award, if any, will be at the sole discretion of the Committee. 
       
           (b 
    As the grant of the Award is discretionary, the grant does not form part of your contract of employment.  If you are employed by any Company in the group other than the Company, the grant of the Award will not form a contractual relationship between you and the Company and will not form part of your contract of employment with the Subsidiary which employs you. 
       
           (c) 
    Notwithstanding anything to the contrary in this Agreement, if you change classification from a full-time employee to a part-time employee, the Company may make unilateral changes to the terms and conditions of this Award, including reducing the number of Shares subject to this Award, in accordance with Company policy. 
       
           (d) 
    This Award is an extraordinary item that does not constitute compensation for services that you have rendered to the Company or any Subsidiaries (including, as applicable, your employer).  Further, this Award is not part of normal or expected compensation or salary for any purpose including, but not limited to, calculating any severance, resignation, termination, payment in lieu of notice, redundancy, end of service payments, bonuses long-service awards, pension or retirement benefits or similar payments. 
       
           (e) 
    Your participation in the Plan is voluntary.  The Company, and its officers or directors, do not guarantee or make any representation to you regarding the performance of the Common Stock.  The future value of the Common Stock is unknown and cannot be predicted with any certainty. 
       
           (f) 
    Because this Agreement relates to terms and conditions under which you may be issued Shares and the Company is a Delaware corporation, an essential term of this Agreement is that it shall be governed by the laws of the State of Delaware, without regard to choice of law principles of Delaware or other jurisdictions.  You acknowledge and agree that any action, suit, or proceeding relating to this Agreement or the Award granted hereunder shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in Santa Clara County in the State of California. 
       
           (g) 
    Communications regarding the Plan and this Award may be made by electronic delivery through an online or electronic system established and maintained by the Company or a third party designated by the Company.  You hereby acknowledge that you have read this provision and consent to the electronic delivery of the documents. 
       
           (h) 
    You hereby understand and acknowledge that your personal data may be collected, used and transferred, in electronic or other form, by and among, as applicable, your employer, the Company and its Subsidiaries for the purposes of implementing, administering and managing the Plan. This may include personal data regarding your employment, the nature and amount of your compensation and the fact and conditions of your participation in the Plan, your name, gender, home address, email address and telephone number, date of birth, tax file number, social security number or other identification number, salary, tax information, nationality, job title, any shares of stock or directorships held in the Company and its Subsidiaries, details of all options or any other entitlement to shares of stock awarded, canceled, exercised, vested, unvested or outstanding in your favor and other personal data reasonably required for the purpose of implementing, administering and managing the Plan (the  Data ).  For more information about your employer s collection and processing of your Data for this purpose, please see Intuit s Global Employee Privacy Policy, which can be found on the Company s Intranet or by contacting your local human resources representative. 
       
           (i) 
    Data Transfer for Administration of Plan. 
       
           (i) 
    You understand that certain Data may be transferred to the stock administrator, whose name and contact information can be found on the Company s Intranet (the  Stock Administrator ) and other third parties as necessary to enable or assist with the implementation, administration and management of the Plan.  You  

understand that such recipients may act as independent Data Controllers of your Data under applicable privacy laws and in such cases the third party will be responsible for the processing of the Data once it is in their possession or control. You acknowledge that such third parties may process your Data in the United States or in other countries with different, and in some cases less protective, data protection laws than in your country.   You acknowledge and understand that, where any such third party is operating as a Data Controller, that third party may collect additional Data from you in order to implement, administer and manage the Plan, and that third party s privacy policy will govern its collection, use and sharing of your Data.   
    
           (ii) 
     You acknowledge and understand that where any such third party is acting as an independent Data Controller, you will need to exercise your data rights under local law, as applicable, with the third party Data Controller directly. 
       
           (j) 
    This Agreement, and any issuance of Shares hereunder, is intended to comply and shall be interpreted in accordance with Section 409A of the Code.  Upon your Separation from Service, the Company shall determine whether any Shares issued to you in accordance with this Agreement could be determined to be payments from a nonqualified deferred compensation plan and whether you are a  specified employee  as of the applicable payment date (each as defined by Section 409A of the Code).  If you are determined to be a  specified employee  and any such payments are payable in connection with your Separation from Service, and are not exempt from Section 409A of the Code as a short-term deferral or otherwise, these payments, to the extent otherwise payable within six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service, will be paid in a lump sum on the earlier of: (i) the date that is six (6) months after your date of Separation from Service or (ii) the date of your death.  The foregoing six (6) month delay shall be applied if and only to the extent necessary to avoid the imposition of taxes under Section 409A of the Code.  For purposes of this Agreement, a  Separation from Service  means an anticipated permanent reduction in the level of bona fide services to twenty percent (20%) or less of the average level of bona fide services performed over the immediately preceding thirty-six (36) month period.  For purposes of Section 409A of the Code, the payments to be made to you in accordance with this Agreement shall be treated as a right to a series of separate payments. 
       
           7. 
    Miscellaneous  :  This Agreement (including the Plan, which is incorporated herein by reference) constitutes the entire agreement between you and the Company with respect to this Award, and supersedes all prior agreements or promises with respect to the Award.  Except as provided in the Plan, this Agreement may be amended only by a written document signed by the Company and you.  Subject to the terms of the Plan, the Company may assign any of its rights and obligations under this Agreement, and this Agreement shall be binding on, and inure to the benefit of, the successors and assigns of the Company.  Subject to the restrictions on transfer of an Award described in Section 14 of the Plan, this Agreement shall be binding on your permitted successors and assigns (including heirs, executors, administrators and legal representatives).  All notices required under this Agreement or the Plan must be mailed or hand-delivered, (1) in the case of the Company, to the Company, attn.: Stock Administration at 2535 Garcia Ave., Mountain View, CA 94043, or at such other address designated in writing by the Company to you, and (2) in the case of you, at the address recorded in the books and records of the Company as your then current home address.  You acknowledge and agree that any such notices from the Company to you may also be delivered through the Company s electronic mail system (prior to your Termination Date) or at the last email address you provided to the Company (after your Termination Date). 
       
  Additional information about the Plan and this Award (including certain tax consequences related to the Award) is contained in the accompanying Prospectus. 
    
  The Company has signed this Agreement effective as of the Date of Grant. 
    
  INTUIT INC. 

By:    ________________________       
  [                         ], President 
  and Chief Executive Officer 

</EX-10.08>

<EX-10.35>
 3
 fy18q4-ex1035.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.35

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.35+ 

Executive Relocation Policy 

Congratulations on your upcoming relocation with Intuit. 
    
  Although this is an exciting time, we understand the disruption a move can cause and the personal issues that need to be considered. Recognizing this, Intuit has engaged Odyssey Relocation Management ( Odyssey ) to assist you with your relocation. 
  Upon receipt of your signed Offer Letter and Repayment Agreement, Intuit will initiate and notify Odyssey of your relocation. Odyssey will, in turn, contact you within 24 hours of this notification (or next business day if initiated on a Holiday, Friday or over a weekend). Your Odyssey Consultant ( Consultant ) will provide consultation on your relocation benefit packet and coordinate Intuit s preferred providers who may assist during your relocation. 
  The most successful moves are those that are well planned. Therefore, it is important for you to form a partnership with Intuit and Odyssey in this process. 
    
  Best wishes for a successful relocation! 

GENERAL INFORMATION 
    
  Intuit s relocation policy and these relocation guidelines are intended to assist you with the costs associated with your relocation. These guidelines allow for reimbursement of eligible costs, as outlined.  
  Nothing in these relocation guidelines change the at-will status of your employment. Your employment may be terminated by you or Intuit at any time for any reason or no reason at all, without prior notice.  
    
  PROGRAM ELIGIBILITY 
    
  Intuit s relocation program is designed to help you experience a smooth transition to your new location. The program reimburses you for many living, travel and most moving expenses associated with your relocation, as well as assisting with certain estimated federal tax liabilities. 
  Eligibility for relocation assistance under the executive relocation policy requires the following: 
             
    You are a director or officer new hire, or a director or officer transferring locations at Intuit s request.  
                
    All relocation expenses must be incurred and submitted for reimbursement within one (1) year from the effective date of your move/transfer date. 

Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

RELOCATION BENEFITS 

Benefits that are noted or offered in the Policy, but not utilized because they are not needed or do not apply, are not exchanged for cash value. 
    
  SHIPMENT OF HOUSEHOLD GOODS 
    
  Your Consultant will initiate your move with Mesa Systems, a United Van Lines Agent, to coordinate the shipment of your household goods. 
  The Consultant will also work with you to establish a preliminary packing and moving schedule, which will be provided to Mesa so that your move can be coordinated in a timely manner.  A representative from Mesa will contact you to arrange for a pre-move survey. Mesa will then work with you directly in all subsequent scheduling of packing, moving and delivery, while keeping your Odyssey Consultant current with progress and any issues or questions needing to be addressed. 
  NOTE:    You should contact your Consultant as early as possible to establish a preliminary schedule as household goods shipments can take up to three weeks to book and could take longer during the spring and summer months. 
  Shipment 
  The following expenses and services are covered: 
             
    Packing, shipping, full unpacking and one-time debris removal of boxes. 
                
    Storage of household goods for thirty (30) days. 
                
    Full replacement value insurance. 
                
    Service charges for disconnecting and reconnecting appliances. 
                
    Mobility Concierge Services through Mesa Systems is available to provide a highly personalized moving experience.  Please speak to your Odyssey Consultant for more information. 
     The following expenses and services are   not   covered: 
             
    Shipment of hazardous materials such as explosives, chemicals, flammable materials, firearms, garden chemicals. 
                
    Shipment of firewood, lumber or other building materials. 
                
    Shipment and/or boarding of household pets and livestock. 
                
    Removal or disassembling or installation of carpeting, drapery rods, storage sheds or other permanent fixtures. 
                
    Shipment of snowmobiles, boats, motorcycles, recreational vehicles, satellite dishes and unusually heavy or cumbersome materials. 
                
    Valuables such as jewelry, currency, dissertations or publishable papers, and other collectibles or items of extraordinary value. 
                
    Shipment of plants, food or other perishables. 
                
    Overtime charges. Such charges may be incurred; however, they will be at your own expense. This includes time for packing and/or delivery during the evening hours and on the weekends, including all holidays. 
     This is not a complete list of the exclusions to the Plan. You should discuss any questions with your Consultant to ensure any potential issues are cleared up before the shipping process takes place. 
  Be sure to be home or leave an adult personal representative present during the packing/loading operation and at time of delivery. Delivery consists of placing boxes in designated rooms, setting up beds and removing any loose packing materials. It does not include putting goods away or rearranging furniture. If you are considering doing some of your own packing, please discuss with your Mesa Move Coordinator any limitations on their liability for packed by owner (PBO) items. 
  Please pay special attention to some important papers you will be asked to sign  . The   Bill of Lading   authorizes your release of your household goods to the driver during transit. The   Inventory List   is the most important factor for any future damage claim. This list is considered the legal count of your belongings and also indicates their condition at the time they are released  
  
   Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

to the driver. It is important before signing that you make sure that the Inventory form lists every item in your shipment and that the entries regarding the condition of each item are correct. You have the right to note any disagreement. When your shipment is delivered, if an item is missing or damaged, your ability to recover from the mover for any loss or damage may depend on the notations made. 
  It is the employee s responsibility to check off items, as they are unloaded. Only items found on this inventory list will be recognized in any future claims settlement. It is the employee s responsibility to note any damage to your belongings, residence or automobile   at time of delivery  . If you experience damage or lost items, you have up to 9 months to submit a claim with your Mesa Move Coordinator.  You are highly encouraged to submit any claims as soon as possible.  
  Automobiles 
  You may ship up to two (2) automobiles via commercial carrier if the move is over 500 miles.  Insurance on such vehicles will be provided; however, vehicles that are shipped are not eligible for mileage reimbursement.  
  If autos are shipped, no personal items may be left in the auto, due to liability reasons  . Antique or classic cars, or cars that are not in working order, are the responsibility of the employee. If the employee elects to drive a motor home to the new location, reasonable in-transit expenses will be reimbursed, only if the motor home counts as one of the covered vehicles. The cost of the shipment of any automobile cannot be more than the NADA blue book value of the car.   Campers and Trailers: Transportation of pull-behind campers and trailers is not a covered expense. 
  Storage 
  Every effort should be made to plan for a direct move of household goods to your final destination. Unloading goods and placing them in temporary storage, for any period, can double the cost of a move and increase the risk of damage to your items. Storage costs incurred beyond thirty (30) days will be the responsibility of the employee. Storage includes the cost of putting goods into storage and one delivery to your permanent residence. Only one complete delivery will be authorized to your permanent residence. 
  Pets 
  Intuit will not pay for the cost of shipping your household pets to the new location.  Your Relocation Allowance should be utilized for this expense, including the cost of special crates, any required quarantines and boarding expenses while your pets are in transit. Your Consultant can put you in touch with firms that specialize in shipping pets, if you require such a service. However, neither Intuit nor Odyssey are able to guarantee a successful shipment/transport and will not be liable for any circumstances when shipping a pet or pets. 
  Insurance 
  Insurance, commonly referred to as  valuation , is provided at full replacement value for your personal property while in transit. The insurance does not cover accounts, bills, deeds, evidence of debt, currency, letters of credit, passports, airline or other tickets, securities, bullion, precious stones, stamp or coin collections and other collectibles. 
  You may need to consult with your personal insurance policy representative for an explanation of coverage for items in transit, as well as coverage for your vacant property at the former location and/or new location, if applicable. 
    
  TRAVEL TO NEW LOCATION 
    
  Your Odyssey Consultant will authorize you for booking travel via the Intuit Travel Center at HRG (Hogg Robinson Group) Travel.  One-way coach airfare for employee and family must be made fourteen (14) days in advance through Intuit Travel Center at HRG (Hogg Robinson Group) Travel (844.646.8848). Ground transportation costs (to/from airport in origin city and destination city) and airline baggage fees related to final travel to new location will be reimbursed.  
  If driving to the new location, the most direct route should be taken with a minimum of 400 miles logged per day and Intuit will provide for the following: 
             
    Meal per diem at $100/day for employee only plus an additional $25/day for each family member (spouse/domestic partner and/or children), as needed, for a maximum of five (5) days 
                
    Reimbursement of reasonable lodging expenses for a maximum of five (5) days 
                
    Reimbursement of mileage at the prevailing IRS reimbursement rate 
     The employee should maintain all receipts to assist with their tax reporting. 
  
   Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

Automobile maintenance costs will be the employee s responsibility. 

TEMPORARY LIVING   TRANSPORTATION 
    
  Upon arrival in the new location, temporary living (if necessary) will be provided for up to thirty (30) days prior to establishing a permanent residence. Synergy Corporate Housing, in partnership with Odyssey, will arrange for a fully furnished apartment with laundry and cooking facilities. 
    
  Intuit will provide a full-size rental automobile for up to thirty (30) days or until one of your personal vehicles has been shipped to your new location (whichever occurs first).  Arrangements for the rental car are to be made through Intuit Travel Center at HRG (Hogg Robinson Group) Travel (844.646.8848)  . 
  Daily living expenses, other than housekeeping, will be the responsibility of the employee. 
  NOTE:   If an employee is traveling on Intuit business during this period, expenses incurred during business travel should be charged in the usual manner and not as a relocation expense. 
    
  RELOCATION ALLOWANCE 
    
  A relocation allowance of one (1) month annual base salary will be provided, not to exceed $20,000. This amount will be subject to tax withholding. You should request this allowance through Odyssey. This allowance is provided to cover the myriad of relocation expenses that might be incurred that are not specifically stated as directly reimbursable by Intuit. Expenses that might fall under this category are:  

Shipping of items not covered by the Household Goods Shipment provisions described previously 
                
    Removal or installation of articles not paid under the moving guideline  
                
    Charges for transportation or boarding of pets 
                
    Appraisals of antiques or art objects for insurance purposes 
                
    Motor vehicle registration fees 
                
    Cleaning or repairs 
                
    Extermination, fumigation 
                
    Removal, installation of window coverings 
                
    Deposits 
                
    Utility and phone hookups 
                
    Driver s license 
     It is the employee s responsibility to manage these costs so that the allowance will be sufficient to meet your needs. You may keep any unused portion of these funds. 
  Although Intuit does not require receipts, it is important that you keep receipts of all your expenses to assist you when filing your tax return at year-end. 
    
  LEASE TERMINATION 
    
  Rental obligations arising from the cancellation of a lease will be reimbursed up to a maximum of three (3) months  rent at the old location and any security deposit lost due to early termination. The employee is to provide a copy of the lease and written proof of payment. 

Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

SELLING YOUR HOME 
    
  Real Estate Agent Selection  
  Selection of a knowledgeable real estate agent is very important. Odyssey will provide you access to a network of the most qualified real estate agents available in your community who specialize in assisting relocating employees.  
    
  Marketing Assistance  
  Intuit understands that getting the best price for your home is vital to a successful relocation. As such, Intuit has arranged for professional marketing assistance through Odyssey s Marketing Assistance Program. Your Consultant will work in partnership with your listing agent to ensure that an effective marketing strategy on your home is always in place.  
  Your Consultant will provide you with a list of qualified brokers to choose from, and will order a Broker s Market Analysis from two realtors in order to develop a recommended list price and a probable sale price for your home. We recommend you interview several brokers from their list to assess their ability to effectively market your home. The Broker s Market Analyses will also be used in discussing a marketing strategy for your home.  
    
  The marketing strategy will include:  
             
    Suggestions on how to prepare your home for sale  
                
    A recommended listing price and anticipated sales price  
                
    Information on competing properties for sale and recently closed comparable homes  
                
    A designated buyer profile for your property  
                
    Creative home sale promotion ideas 
       
  Listing Your Home  
  Your Consultant will monitor the entire listing effort, including a review of homes currently listed in your area and an evaluation of recently closed properties, to ensure that a realistic pricing strategy is in place. Marketing Assistance also includes pro-active marketing-strategy calls, follow-up on buyer and Realtor feedback, follow-up on advertising and open house events. Your Consultant will also make recommendations to adjust your price, advertising, terms, or conditions accordingly.  
  For your protection, your listing agreement   should   include the Broker Performance Clause provided by your Consultant.   If your agent has any questions regarding the performance clause, please contact your Consultant   before   signing the listing agreement.  
  These services are available to you at no cost or obligation. At your request, your Consultant will discuss the details of the program during your initial call and will arrange to have a qualified real estate agent contact you for an appointment to visit your home. This appointment is for informational purposes only to assist you in developing an effective marketing strategy for your home.  
  While highly recommended, the home selling services described above are at no cost or obligation to you.  
    
  Home Sale Assistance 
    
  Unassisted Sale of Existing Primary Residence 
  The employee may elect to sell the home unassisted by Odyssey and decline to use Intuit s Home Sale Program/Buyer Value Option to minimize tax expenses. The unassisted sale of the home by the employee is   not encouraged by Intuit;   but in the event the employee chooses to sell the home outside of Intuit s home sale program, the employee will be reimbursed the normal costs to sell the home (normal and customary closing costs) as specified below, but will   not receive tax protection from Intuit on those reimbursed amounts and will not be eligible to receive the Home Marketing Allowance or Home Sale Incentive payments as described below. 

Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

Assisted Sale of Existing Primary Residence under Intuit s Home Sale Program 
  Selling your current home is one of the most important aspects of the relocation program. As such, Intuit provides a professionally administered home sale assistance plan through Odyssey, which offers several excellent benefits including: 
             
    A resale plan that significantly reduces the tax burden to you and Intuit 
                
    Selection and management of brokers and other service providers 
                
    Reduced costs and fewer expense reimbursement requests 
                
    Objective advice concerning repairs and remodeling prior to offering home for sale 
                
    Assistance in pricing, resale strategy and negotiations 
                
    Reimbursement (from Intuit) of normal costs to sell the home  
       
  Home Marketing Allowance 
  You are eligible for a marketing allowance up to $3000 to be reimbursed by the company through Odyssey to help you sell your home. This allowance is intended to help you receive the highest possible offer and can be used as follows: 
             
    Seller incentives, such as homeowner s association fees, home warranty, decorating allowance or buyer s closing costs 
                
    Agent incentives 
                
    Repair allowance 
                
    Staging of the home 
       
  Home Sale Incentive Program 
  Intuit offers a Home Sale Incentive program that will pay the employee up to: 
             
    2% of the home sale price if the home is under contract within 60 days of the listing date 
                
    1.5% of the home sale price if the home is under contract between 61 and 90 days of the listing date 
                
    1% of the home sale price if the home is under contract between 91 and 120 days of the listing date 
     The employee is required to utilize the Home Sale Assistance program described in the next section. This incentive will be paid to employee at the time of the final equity settlement payment from Odyssey under the Home Sale Assistance program. This amount will be subject to tax withholding. 
    
  Eligibility for Home Sale Assistance 
  Each employee is responsible for the sale of his/her primary owned residence, subject to the following guidelines and restrictions: 
           1. 
    Definition of Eligible Property.     To be eligible for Home Sale Assistance the residence must be a single unit (house), or two-family residence, town home or condominium, and is the present principal dwelling of the transferring employee. Vacant land, mobile homes, boats, cooperatives, single family dwellings with excess of 5 acres, vacation homes, summer cottages, and property held for investment are not eligible. 
              2. 
    Ownership and Title.     The home must be the primary residence of the employee, owned by the employee and/or the employee s spouse or significant other on the date the employee is requested in writing by Intuit to relocate. The employee must be able to deliver clear title to the property. 
              3. 
    Condition and Requirements.     The home must meet the following requirements: 
                
    The home must be completed, that is, not under construction or undergoing renovation. 
                
    The home must be a one-or two-family principal residence. Vacation homes, second homes, mobile homes, vacant land and cooperatives are excluded from eligibility. 
                
    The home must not contain or be built near hazardous materials. 
              4. 
    Real Estate Agent.     The real estate agent selected to list the home for sale   must   be approved by Odyssey   prior     to   listing the home, and include an Exclusion Clause in the listing contract (content of waiver will be provided and approved by Odyssey). 
              5. 
    Pricing your Home.   Your Odyssey Consultant will provide you with, and introduce you to, a list of qualified realtors to choose from, and will order a Broker s Market Analysis ( BMA ) from at least two, in order to develop a recommended list price and a most probable sale price for your home. The BMA is a detailed report, focused on your home and local real estate market that will be used in discussing and formulating an effective marketing strategy for your home. 
              6. 
    Accepting Sales Offers.     When an offer is received on the home,   the employee must not sign the offer nor accept any earnest monies from the buyer or broker  .   Odyssey will review the terms and conditions of the offer to ensure that it is bona fide, that the buyer is qualified, and that the terms and net amount of the offer (calculated according to the provisions of this guideline) are acceptable to the employee. If these conditions are met, Odyssey will extend to the employee a written contract to purchase the home at an amount and terms equal to the offer. This is known as a Buyer Value Option Sale.   This written offer from Odyssey is the only contract of sale the employee will sign. 
     
   Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

7. 
    Buyer Value Option Home Sale.     Intuit has provided an Odyssey - administered program as a means of minimizing the tax burden to both Intuit and the employee. Adherence to all steps of the home sale guidelines (i.e., selling the home to Odyssey, and their subsequent sale to the buyer) is required to provide the optimum tax advantage and protection on costs to sell the home in the old location. An employee s failure to conform fully to the guideline requirements of this section may jeopardize the tax integrity of the program. In the event that an employee s actions compromise the tax advantages of the guidelines, the employee will be responsible for the personal income taxes on all reimbursed amounts, and no tax assistance will be provided from company on resale costs. 
              8. 
    Loan Payoff.     The existing financing on the home, if any, will remain in place at the discretion of Odyssey until the sale to the ultimate buyer closes. Odyssey will make mortgage payments on behalf of the employee once the home has been sold to Odyssey. At closing of the ultimate sale, the loan will be paid in full.  
              9. 
    Financial Responsibilities of Employee.   The employee is responsible for: 
                
    All costs of maintaining the home (mortgage, homeowner s dues, taxes, insurance, utilities, and maintenance) until the contract date or vacate date, whichever is later, between Odyssey and the employee 
                
    Required repairs as a result of the buyer s inspection 
                
    Any seller concessions or seller paid discount points for the buyer  
                
    Any costs associated with  curing  defects in title 
       
  Odyssey will account for these costs in their calculation of the employee s equity. The employee will not be required to make any upfront payments. Those payments will be made by Odyssey on behalf of the employee, from funds withheld from the employee s final equity settlement. All equity payments to the employee will be made by Odyssey. 
           10. 
    Financial Responsibilities of Intuit and Odyssey.     The normal and customary costs to sell the home will be paid by Intuit through Odyssey at closing to the ultimate outside buyer. The employee who utilizes the buyer value home sale provisions of these guidelines will not pay specific costs which include: 
                
    Standard real estate broker s commission for the area 
                
    Legal, escrow fees, and/or attorney s fees  
                
    Title insurance (if customarily paid by the seller) 
                
    Reasonable closing expenses customarily paid by the seller, to include: 
                
    Revenue stamps 
                
    Recording fees 
                
    Mortgage cancellation fees 
                
    Transfer taxes 
                
    Lender required inspections 
                
    Application fee 
                
    Mortgage pre-payment penalties up to a maximum of $5,000 
       
  Disclosure 
  Disclosure is defined as the duty of the seller to make known or public to a buyer the condition of the property, particularly any defect that could affect its value, habitability or desirability. Failure to do so could constitute, at a minimum, misrepresentation and more likely, fraud. 
  It is, therefore, your responsibility as the homeowner to disclose the full condition of your property to Odyssey and any potential buyers. Please be advised that some states require by law a separate, specific disclosure form for all property transfers. Additional forms are required by the state of California, and if appropriate, will be provided to you by your Consultant. Your Consultant will also advise you accordingly if completion of such a form is required in your departure location. 
  Should you generate a sale, all inspections must be disclosed to the buyer. Your agent, however, should encourage the buyer to have their own inspections performed at their own expense. 
  Should you fail to disclose complete and accurate information which is subsequently discovered, you may be held responsible for all expenses involved in correcting the defects and any possible litigation as a result of non-disclosure. 
    
  FINDING YOUR NEW HOME 
    
  Home Finding Trip 
  Intuit  will arrange and pay for a professional home finding consultant to assist the relocating employee and his/her family in finding a new home in a neighborhood that best meets the family s needs and requests. A destination services provider, assigned  
  
   Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

by your Odyssey Consultant, will conduct a pre-arrival phone consultation to discuss your specific housing needs and the current market conditions related to price and availability.  
  You will be picked up by an agent for a tour of selected rentals and/or a customized tour to orient yourself to the area highlighting points of interest, recreation spots/outdoor activities, and local transportation. 
  Intuit also provides for reimbursement of expenses for the home-finding trip for employee and spouse/domestic partner, and child/children if they accompany, for up to two (2) round-trip visits to the new location for a total of (not to exceed) ten (10) nights in the aggregate. 
  Benefits that apply include: 
             
    Round trip coach airfare for you and your spouse/domestic partner, and child/children if they accompany you. Intuit Travel Center at HRG (Hogg Robinson Group) Travel (844.646.8848) will assist with your travel arrangements. 
                
    If the employee chooses to drive to the new employment location, mileage will be reimbursed at the prevailing IRS rate. 
                
    Rental of a full size automobile will be arranged by Intuit Travel. 
                
    Intuit will reimburse for reasonable expenses for lodging arranged by Intuit Travel. 
                
    Meals and incidental expenses will be reimbursed at a per diem of $100/day for employee only plus an additional $25/day for each family member (spouse/domestic partner and/or children), as needed, for a maximum of ten (10) days in aggregate 
                
    In the event your child/children do not accompany you on the home finding trip, actual and reasonable childcare expenses for your child/children while you are on your home finding trip will be covered, not to exceed ten (10) days in the aggregate. 
     Other expenses such as telephone, laundry/dry cleaning, entertainment, are   not   reimbursable expenses. 
    
  New Home Mortgage - Mortgage Introduction Assistance 
  Once you have found a home that you intend to purchase, in most cases, you will need a mortgage to complete the transaction. Applying for a mortgage can be a time consuming and frustrating process. To simplify this process, Intuit has established a relationship with Odyssey s preferred mortgage lenders.  
  You are free to obtain your load through the lender of your choice; however, the benefits of utilizing Odyssey s preferred lenders are: 
             
    Competitive rates for transferring employees 
                
    Pre-approval prior to your house hunting trip 
                
    Prompt mortgage approval and processing turn-around times 
     In addition to delivering these benefits, these preferred lenders are very familiar with the benefits you are receiving under the relocation guidelines of your company. Your Mortgage Consultant will help you analyze all aspects of your new mortgage. Please contact your Consultant when ready to engage with the mortgage process. 
    
  Home Purchase Benefit 
    
  Home Purchase Assistance 
  Your Consultant can refer you to a Realtor who is a member of their Network Program. These real estate professionals are accustomed to working with relocating employees and are qualified to assist you with area counseling and home finding services. In addition, use of a preferred Realtor will better enable your Consultant to monitor your Realtor s performance and help you maximize the benefits under these relocation guidelines.  
  If you wish to work with a specific agent, you must notify your Consultant prior to your home finding trip. Your Consultant will talk with the agent to confirm that they have the necessary qualifications to assist you.  
    
  Purchase Closing Costs 
  There are numerous expenses associated with the closing of a new home. Intuit will arrange for you to be reimbursed for normal and customary buyer s expenses, provided that the new home closing occurs within one (1) year of your initiation date. 
  
   Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

Reimbursement of these items will be coordinated by Odyssey and will be considered taxable income.  Non-recurring closing costs will be grossed-up for tax purposes.  By utilizing an Odyssey Preferred Lender, the reimbursable costs can be direct billed to Odyssey and will not need to be paid out of pocket by you.  
  Those fees and charges most commonly covered are: 
    
  Non-recurring Closing Costs: 

Title insurance (when applicable) 
                
    Transfer taxes (when applicable) 
                
    Reasonable attorney fees 
                
    Real estate appraisal 
                
    Credit report 
                
    Recording fees 
                
    Survey expense (if required) 
                
    Title search, examination and opinion 
                
    State deed tax 
                
    Inspections required by lender, such as pest, structural/mechanical, water/well, septic, and radon, up to a maximum of $500 
                
    Notary fees 
       
  The following costs will not be reimbursed: 

Real estate agent s commissions 
                
    Property tax, insurance or interest 
                
    Expenses normally charged to the seller 
                
    Soil reports (geological surveys) 
                
    Home warranty insurance program 
                
    Private mortgage insurance 
                
    Improvement assessments by State, City, County taxing authorities 

COMMUTE BENEFIT 
  A commute benefit is approved for a duration of 6 months.  This commute benefit provides: 
             
    Weekly round-trip airfare (per Intuit global travel policy) for employee between home and new location for approved duration of commute benefit 
                
    Weekly mid-size car rental (per Intuit global travel policy) for employee at new location for approved duration of commute benefit 
                
    Temporary housing (2-bedroom fully furnished apartment) for approved duration of commute benefit  
                
    Reimbursement of ground transportation costs (to/from airport at home and new location) 
                
    Reimbursement of airline baggage fees related to travel between home and new location 
       
  The following expenses are not included in the commute benefit and will be the employee s responsibility: 
             
    Daily living expenses 
                
    Gas for rental car 
                
    Personal meals and entertainment  
                
    Child care, nanny, or pet sitting services 
                
    Laundry and dry-cleaning services 
                
    Gym or fitness fees 
       
  Other normal living expenses not specifically listed above will also be the employee s responsibility.  Your Odyssey Consultant will authorize you for booking travel (airfare and rental car) via the Intuit Travel Center at HRG (Hogg Robinson Group) Travel and coordinate housing with Synergy Corporate Housing. 
  
   Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

Note:  Relocation expenses (including expenses related to the commute benefit listed above) do not qualify as business expenses.  Since Intuit Global Purchasing Card (Pcard) can be used only for qualified business expenses, use of Pcard for relocation related expenses would be in violation of Intuit s Global Pcard and Expense Reimbursement Policy.  Relocation expenses and normal business expenses should not be combined on a single expense report.  Relocation expenses must be processed through Odyssey and any business expenses will be governed by the published guidelines in effect for Intuit business travel.   
    
  MISCELLANEOUS 
    
  TAX INFORMATION  
    
  Tax Classification of Expenses 
  Intuit follows strict Federal guidelines for reporting expenses associated with an employee s relocation. All relocation reimbursements provided to you must be reported as income and included in taxable wages on your annual W-2 Form. Expenses are subject to withholding taxes (Federal, Social Security, Medicare, state and local taxes, as appropriate). Except for the relocation allowance (which will have taxes withheld), the withholding tax obligations will be paid by Intuit utilizing the  gross-up  method.  The gross-up method pays additional taxes to the taxing authorities intended to minimize the tax burden associated with these expenses when they are reported as income to you. For example, combined income of spouse and other additional income can have an impact on your personal tax rates and Intuit does not take those personal tax factors into consideration. 
  Record-Keeping 
  You must retain copies of receipts and statements of expenses incurred in connection with your relocation for tax purposes. It is your responsibility to substantiate relocation expense claims submitted to Intuit. 
  Gross-Up Procedures 
  The gross-up allowance for Federal, State, Local, Social Security and Medicare tax liabilities will be coordinated by Odyssey. The gross-up method pays additional taxes to the taxing authorities and is intended to minimize the tax burden associated with these expenses when they are reported as income to you. The additional withholding tax that is paid will be reported by Intuit on your W-2. Odyssey will notify the employee of the gross-up calculation at the end of the year. 
    
  Processing of Expenditures 
  Relocation expenses and normal business expenses should not be combined on a single expense report. Relocation expenses must be processed through Odyssey. Business expense reimbursement is processed separately by Intuit. Any business expenses will be governed by the published guidelines in effect for Intuit business travel. 
    
  Medical Coverage 
  Special attention should be paid to your medical benefits during this time. The company s medical plans may be network-oriented. If your family does not join you immediately, they may not qualify for full medical benefits because they are outside the network. It is important that you are informed about the medical benefits you and your family will receive during the transition to your new location. Contact Intuit Human Resources     at 1-800-819-1620 to discuss your specific situation. 
    
  Personal Legal Matters 
  If you are relocating out of your current state, we recommend you consider how your relocation could affect your wills and estate planning. It could be advisable to review your estate plan with an estate lawyer familiar with the laws in your new location. 
  Change of Address 
  Internal Transfers:    Please be sure to submit a home address change to reflect your current residence at your new location. If your new work location is in a different state, you must also complete a state tax form for the  new  state for payroll purposes. Please contact Intuit Human Resources     at 1-800-819-1620 for details and instructions. 
  
   Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

RELOCATION REPAYMENT AGREEMENT 
    
  Moving an employee requires a substantial investment on Intuit s part. Therefore, if you voluntarily resign from Intuit within one (1) year of your start date (new hire) or transfer date (internal transfer) or during your relocation, at new location, no further relocation benefits, including reimbursements, will be paid to you and you will be required to reimburse Intuit for the cost of the relocation per the terms and conditions outlined in your   Relocation Repayment Agreement  . Please sign and return this Agreement to Intuit, as benefits will not be processed without this being completed. 

Relocation Repayment Agreement (U.S.) 
           1. 
    I agree to this Relocation Repayment Agreement in return for receipt of relocation expenses under Intuit's Relocation Policy.   
              2. 
    If I resign my employment at any time within one (1) year of my start date in the new location (or, for interns, before the end of my internship), I agree that I will not receive any additional relocation expenses.   Relocation benefits will end as soon as I give notice of my resignation.   
              3. 
    If I resign my employment at any time within one (1) year of my start date in the new location (or, for interns, before the end of my internship), I also agree to reimburse Intuit a pro-rated portion of any relocation expenses paid to me or on my behalf in connection with my relocation.  The pro-rated portion will be calculated by subtracting the number of complete months left between my start date in the new location and my one year anniversary in the new location as of my separation date, dividing that total by 12 and then multiplying that result by the amount of all relocation benefits paid to me or made on my behalf.  For example, if I resign my employment after working in the new location for 5 complete months, I have 7 months left before my one year anniversary in the new location and will have to reimburse Intuit 7/12ths of all relocation expenses paid to me  .    The calculation is similar for interns, but it is based on the duration of the internship instead of 12 months. 
              4. 
    I authorize Intuit to deduct the amount that I owe under this agreement from my final pay or other amounts Intuit owes me, to the extent allowed by law.  I also agree to sign any more specific and detailed authorizations if Intuit asks me to do so.   If the deductions do not cover everything I owe or deductions are not made, I agree to pay Intuit all remaining amounts within fourteen (14) days of the end of my employment  .     
              5. 
    I understand that any relocation expenses not submitted to Intuit s outside relocation vendor (currently Odyssey) within one (1) year of my start date in the new location will not be reimbursed by Intuit.   
              6. 
    I understand and acknowledge that the only relocation expenses I am entitled to are what Intuit is offering to me through Intuit s Relocation Policy.  Changes to relocation expenses or benefits beyond what is in Intuit s Relocation Policy must be made in writing and approved by a Director or above.   
              7. 
    I agree that this is the entire agreement between me and Intuit about relocation repayment and supersedes all prior negotiations and agreements, whether written or oral, relating to relocation repayment. 
              8. 
    I agree that nothing in this Relocation Repayment Agreement is intended to create a contract or a guarantee of employment by Intuit for any specific time period.  I understand and agree that my employment is at will and that Intuit or I may terminate it at any time. 
       
  Employee Signature:  ___________________________________          Date: ____________________________ 

Print Name:  __________________________________________          Last 4 digits of SSN: ________________ 
    (for relocation tax purposes) 

Executive Relocation Policy (with Home Sale   Home Purchase Benefits) 
  January 2018       

</EX-10.35>

<EX-10.41>
 4
 fy18q4-ex1041.htm
 EXHIBIT 10.41

Exhibit 

Exhibit 10.41+ 

INTUIT INC. 
  SENIOR EXECUTIVE INCENTIVE PLAN 
  Amended and Restated by the Compensation Committee effective August 1, 2018 
   The Intuit Inc. Senior Executive Incentive Plan is a component of Intuit s overall strategy to pay its employees for performance.  The purposes of this Plan are to:  (A) motivate senior executives by tying their compensation to performance; (B) reward exceptional performance that supports overall Intuit objectives; and (C) attract and retain top performing employees. 
           2. 
    Definitions 
              A. 
     Award  means any cash incentive payment made under the Plan. 
              B. 
     Code  means the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended. 
              C. 
     Committee  means the Compensation Committee of Intuit s Board of Directors, or such other committee designated by that Board of Directors, which is authorized to administer the Plan under Section 3 hereof.   
              D. 
     Intuit  means Intuit Inc. and any corporation or other business entity of which Intuit (i) directly or indirectly has an ownership interest of 50% or more, or (ii) has a right to elect or appoint 50% or more of the board of directors or other governing body. 
              E. 
     Senior Executive  means an Intuit employee who holds a position with the title of Senior Vice President or above. 
              F. 
     Participant  means any Senior Executive to whom an Award is granted under the Plan. 
              G. 
     Plan  means this Plan, which shall be known as the Intuit Senior Executive Incentive Plan. 
              3. 
    Administration 
              A. 
    The Plan shall be administered by the Committee.  The Committee shall have the authority to: 
              (i) 
    interpret and determine all questions of policy and expediency pertaining to the Plan; 
              (ii) 
    adopt such rules, regulations, agreements and instruments as it deems necessary for its proper administration; 
              (iii) 
    select Senior Executives to receive Awards; 
              (iv) 
    determine the terms of Awards consistent with this Plan document; 
              (v) 
    determine amounts subject to Awards (within the limits prescribed in the Plan); 

(vi) 
    determine whether Awards will be granted in replacement of or as alternatives to any other incentive or compensation plan of Intuit or an acquired business unit; 
              (vii) 
    grant waivers of Plan or Award conditions; 
              (viii) 
    accelerate the payment of Awards; 
              (ix) 
    correct any defect, supply any omission, or reconcile any inconsistency in the Plan, any Award or any Award notice; 
              (x) 
    take any and all other actions it deems necessary or advisable for the proper administration of the Plan; 
              (xi) 
    adopt such Plan procedures, regulations, subplans and the like as it deems are necessary to enable Senior Executives to receive Awards; and 
              (xii) 
    amend the Plan at any time and from time to time. 
              B. 
    The Committee may delegate its authority to grant and administer Awards to a separate committee, in its sole discretion. 
              4. 
    Eligibility 
     Only Senior Executives designated by the Committee as eligible may become Participants in the Plan. 
           5. 
    Performance Goals 
              A. 
    The Committee shall establish performance goals applicable to a particular fiscal year (or performance period) prior to its start, provided, however, that such goals may be established after the start of the fiscal year (or performance period) but while the outcome of the performance goal is substantially uncertain. 
              B. 
    A performance goal applicable to a fiscal year (or performance period) shall be stated in terms of a particular performance criteria, or growth or other changes in the amount, rate or value of one or more performance criteria, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, applied to either Intuit as a whole or to a business unit, division, business segment or function or subsidiary, either individually, alternatively or in any combination, and measured on an absolute basis or relative to a pre-established target, to previous years  results or to a designated comparison group, either based upon Generally Accepted Accounting Principles ( GAAP ) or non-GAAP financial results, in each case as specified by the Committee. 
              C. 
    The Committee shall determine the target level of performance that must be achieved with respect to each criterion that is identified in a performance goal in order for a performance goal to be treated as attained. 
              D. 
    The Committee shall base performance goals on one or more business criteria.  In the event performance goals are based on more than one business criterion, the Committee may determine to make Awards upon attainment of the performance goal relating to any one or more of such criteria, provided the performance goals, when established, are stated as alternatives to one another at the time the performance goal is established. 
              E. 
    As soon as reasonably practicable following the conclusion of each fiscal year (or performance period), the Committee shall certify, in writing, if and the extent to which the performance goal or goals have been satisfied. The Committee may appropriately adjust any evaluation of performance under a performance goal. 

A. 
    During any Intuit fiscal year, no Participant shall receive an Award of more than $5,000,000. 
              B. 
    The Committee, in its discretion, may reduce or eliminate a Participant s Award at any time before it is paid, whether or not calculated on the basis of pre-established performance goals or formulas. 
              C. 
    Except as expressly provided herein, the payment of an Award requires that the Participant be an active employee and on Intuit s payroll on July 31 of the applicable year to receive any portion of the Award.  The Committee may make exceptions to the foregoing requirement in the case of death or disability, or in the case of a corporate change in control as determined by the Committee in its sole discretion.  In addition, a Participant whose employment is governed by an employment agreement and whose employment is terminated by Intuit without  Cause,  or who resigns for  Good Reason,  or in an  Involuntary Termination  (as such terms, or their equivalents, are defined in the Participant s employment agreement), shall be permitted to continue participating in the Plan through the end of the then-current fiscal year, and shall be eligible to receive an Award based on the actual level of achievement of the applicable performance goals for such year, prorated to take into account the portion of such fiscal year during which the Participant was an active employee and in all events subject to the provisions of Section 6.B above if such continued participation is provided for under such Participant s employment agreement. 
              D. 
    Awards shall be paid no later than the first March 15 following the end of the fiscal year in which occurred the performance for which the Award is being paid. 
              E. 
    Intuit shall withhold all applicable federal, state, local and foreign taxes required by law to be paid or withheld relating to the receipt or payment of any Award. 
              F. 
    In the event that the Company issues a restatement of its financial results for a period in the last three fiscal years with respect to which an Award was determined after payment of such Award to a Participant, which restatement decreases the level of achievement of one or more performance goals from the level(s) previously certified by the Committee, then, in the discretion of the Committee, the Participant will be required to deliver to the Company, within 30 days after the Participant s receipt of written notification by the Company, an amount in cash equal to the amount of the Award that would not have been paid to the Participant based on the restated financial results. 
               A. 
    The Plan, as amended and restated hereby, is effective as of August 1, 2018, and shall apply to Awards granted with respect to the Company's fiscal year beginning on such date and future fiscal years of the Company.  The adoption of the Plan shall not be construed as creating any limitations on the power of the Committee to adopt such other incentive arrangements as it may deem desirable. 
              B. 
    Any rights of a Participant under the Plan shall not be assignable by such Participant, by operation of law or otherwise, except by will or the laws of descent and distribution.  No Participant may create a lien on any funds or rights to which he or she may have an interest under the Plan, or which is held by Intuit for the account of the Participant under the Plan. 
              C. 
    Participation in the Plan shall not give any Senior Executive any right to remain in Intuit s employ. Further, the adoption of this Plan shall not be deemed to give any Senior Executive or other individual the right to be selected as a Participant or to be granted an Award. 

D. 
    To the extent any person acquires a right to receive payments from Intuit under this Plan, such rights shall be no greater than the rights of an unsecured creditor of Intuit s.  Any payments under the Plan are to be paid from the Intuit s general assets. No trust, account or other separate fund or segregation of assets will be established for payments pursuant to the Plan. 
              E. 
    The Plan shall be governed by and construed in accordance with the laws of the State of California.  Any action, suit, or proceeding relating to the Plan or any Award granted under the Plan shall be brought in the state or federal courts of competent jurisdiction in Santa Clara County in the State of California. 
              F. 
    The Plan is intended to be exempt from Section 409A of the Code and shall be administered and interpreted accordingly. Notwithstanding any other provision of the Plan, if any provision of the Plan conflicts with the requirements of Section 409A of the Code, the requirements of Section 409A of the Code shall supersede any such provision. In no event will Intuit be liable for any additional tax, interest or penalties that may be imposed on a Participant by Section 409A of the Code or any damages for failing to comply with Section 409A of the Code. 
              G. 
    The Board may amend or terminate the Plan at any time. 

END OF PLAN DOCUMENT 

</EX-10.41>

<EX-21.01>
 5
 fy18q4-ex2101.htm
 EXHIBIT 21.01

Exhibit 

Exhibit 21.01 
  INTUIT INC. 
  Subsidiaries as of August 28, 2018 

Entity 
    Formation 
      AisleBuyer, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Applatix, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      CBS Employer Services, Inc. 
    Texas 
      Computing Resources, Inc. 
    Nevada 
      Dallas Innovative Merchant Solutions, LLC 
    Texas 
      Electronic Clearing House, LLC 
    Delaware 
      EmployeeMatters Insurance Agency, Inc. 
    Connecticut 
      Exactor, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Exactor (Canada) Inc. 
    Pennsylvania 
      Intuit (Aotearoa) Limited 
    New Zealand 
      Intuit Australia Pty Limited 
    Australia 
      Intuit Brasil Participa  es Ltda. 
    Brazil 
      Intuit (Check) Software Ltd. 
    Israel 
      Intuit Canada Tax ULC 
    Canada 
      Intuit Canada ULC 
    Canada 
      Intuit Consumer Group Inc. 
    California 
      Intuit Distribution Inc. 
    California 
      Intuit Do-It-Yourself Payroll 
    California 
      Intuit Financing Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Intuit France SAS 
    France 
      Intuit Holding Ltd 
    United Kingdom 
      Intuit India Product Development Centre Private Ltd. 
    India 
      Intuit India Software Solutions Private Limited 
    India 
      Intuit Insurance Services Inc. 
    California 
      Intuit Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Intuit Mint Bills, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Intuit Mint Bills Payments, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Intuit Payment Solutions, LLC 
    California 
      Intuit Payments Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Intuit Payroll Holding, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Intuit Payroll Services, LLC 
    Delaware 
      Intuit Sales Tax LLC 
    Delaware 
      Intuit Singapore Pte. Limited 
    Singapore 
      Lacerte Software Corporation 
    Delaware 
      Level Up Analytics GmbH 
    Germany 
      Lion s Partners, LLC 
    Delaware 
      MerchantAmerica, Inc. 
    California 
      Mint Software Inc. 
    Delaware 

MTS Global (Europe) Limited 
    United Kingdom 
      Nuance Data, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      PayCycle, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Payroll Solution, Inc. 
    Texas 
      Quincy Data Center, LLC 
    Washington 
      SecureTax.com, Inc. 
    Delaware 
      Superior Bankcard Service LLC 
    Delaware 
      Squire Inc. 
    Pennsylvania 
      T-Jar Inc. 
    Pennsylvania 
      TSheets Holdco Inc. 
    Delaware 
      TSheets.com, LLC 
    Delaware 
      XpressCheX, Inc. 
    California 

</EX-21.01>

<EX-23.01>
 6
 fy18q4-ex2301.htm
 EXHIBIT 23.01

Exhibit 

Exhibit 23.01 
    
  CONSENT OF INDEPENDENT REGISTERED PUBLIC ACCOUNTING FIRM 
    
  We consent to the incorporation by reference in the following Registration Statements:  

of Intuit Inc. of our reports dated   August 31, 2018  , with respect to the consolidated financial statements and schedule of Intuit Inc. and the effectiveness of internal control over financial reporting of Intuit Inc. included in this Annual Report (Form 10-K)  for the year ended   July 31, 2018  .  

</EX-23.01>

<EX-31.01>
 7
 fy18q4-ex3101.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.01

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.01  
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL EXECUTIVE OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
  EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
    
  I, Brad D. Smith, certify that:  
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intuit Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a. 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a. 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal controls over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 

Date:   August 31, 2018    
    
  By:   /s/ BRAD D. SMITH 
  Brad D. Smith 
  Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
  (Principal Executive Officer)  

</EX-31.01>

<EX-31.02>
 8
 fy18q4-ex3102.htm
 EXHIBIT 31.02

Exhibit 

Exhibit 31.02 
    
  CERTIFICATION OF PRINCIPAL FINANCIAL OFFICER PURSUANT TO 
  EXCHANGE ACT RULE 13a-14(a)/15d-14(a) 
  AS ADOPTED PURSUANT TO SECTION 302 
  OF THE SARBANES-OXLEY ACT OF 2002  
    
  I, Michelle M. Clatterbuck, certify that:  
           1. 
    I have reviewed this annual report on Form 10-K of Intuit Inc.; 
              2. 
    Based on my knowledge, this report does not contain any untrue statement of a material fact or omit to state a material fact necessary to make the statements made, in light of the circumstances under which such statements were made, not misleading with respect to the period covered by this report; 
              3. 
    Based on my knowledge, the financial statements, and other financial information included in this report, fairly present in all material respects the financial condition, results of operations and cash flows of the registrant as of, and for, the periods presented in this report; 
              4. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I are responsible for establishing and maintaining disclosure controls and procedures (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(e) and 15d-15(e)) and internal control over financial reporting (as defined in Exchange Act Rules 13a-15(f) and 15d-15(f)) for the registrant and have: 
              a. 
    Designed such disclosure controls and procedures, or caused such disclosure controls and procedures to be designed under our supervision, to ensure that material information relating to the registrant, including its consolidated subsidiaries, is made known to us by others within those entities, particularly during the period in which this report is being prepared; 
              b. 
    Designed such internal control over financial reporting, or caused such internal control over financial reporting to be designed under our supervision, to provide reasonable assurance regarding the reliability of financial reporting and the preparation of financial statements for external purposes in accordance with generally accepted accounting principles; 
              c. 
    Evaluated the effectiveness of the registrant s disclosure controls and procedures and presented in this report our conclusions about the effectiveness of the disclosure controls and procedures, as of the end of the period covered by this report based on such evaluation; and 
              d. 
    Disclosed in this report any change in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting that occurred during the registrant s most recent fiscal quarter (the registrant s fourth fiscal quarter in the case of an annual report) that has materially affected, or is reasonably likely to materially affect, the registrant s internal control over financial reporting; and 
              5. 
    The registrant s other certifying officer and I have disclosed, based on our most recent evaluation of internal control over financial reporting, to the registrant s auditors and the audit committee of registrant s board of directors (or persons performing the equivalent functions): 
              a. 
    All significant deficiencies and material weaknesses in the design or operation of internal control over financial reporting which are reasonably likely to adversely affect the registrant s ability to record, process, summarize and report financial information; and 
              b. 
    Any fraud, whether or not material, that involves management or other employees who have a significant role in the registrant s internal control over financial reporting. 
       
  Date:   August 31, 2018    
    
  By:   /s/ Michelle M. Clatterbuck 
  Michelle M. Clatterbuck 
  Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
  (Principal Financial Officer)  

</EX-31.02>

<EX-32.01>
 9
 fy18q4-ex3201.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.01

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.01  
    
  Certification of Principal Executive Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 
  1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to 
  Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Intuit Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended   July 31, 2018   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Brad D. Smith, Chairman and Chief Executive Officer of the Company, certifies pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
       
                 /s/ BRAD D. SMITH 
      Brad D. Smith 
      Chairman and Chief Executive Officer 
      (Principal Executive Officer) 

Date: 
    August 31, 2018 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.01>

<EX-32.02>
 10
 fy18q4-ex3202.htm
 EXHIBIT 32.02

Exhibit 

EXHIBIT 32.02 
    
  Certification of Principal Financial Officer Pursuant to 18 U.S.C. Section 
  1350, 
  As Adopted Pursuant to 
  Section 906 of The Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002  
    
  In connection with the Annual Report of Intuit Inc. (the  Company ) on Form 10-K for the year ended   July 31, 2018   as filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission on the date hereof (the  Report ), Michelle M. Clatterbuck, Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer of the Company, certifies pursuant to 18 U.S.C.   1350, as adopted pursuant to   906 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, that:  

The Report fully complies with the requirements of section 13(a) or 15(d) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934; and 

The information contained in the Report fairly presents, in all material respects, the financial condition and results of operations of the Company. 
       
                 /s/ MICHELLE M. CLATTERBUCK 
      Michelle M. Clatterbuck 
      Executive Vice President and Chief Financial Officer 
      (Principal Financial Officer) 

Date: 
    August 31, 2018 

A signed original of this written statement required by Section 906 has been provided to the Company and will be retained by the Company and furnished to the Securities and Exchange Commission or its staff upon request. 

</EX-32.02>

<EX-101.SCH>
 11
 intu-20180731.xsd
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION SCHEMA DOCUMENT

</EX-101.SCH>

<EX-101.CAL>
 12
 intu-20180731_cal.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION CALCULATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.CAL>

<EX-101.DEF>
 13
 intu-20180731_def.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION DEFINITION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.DEF>

<EX-101.LAB>
 14
 intu-20180731_lab.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION LABEL LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.LAB>

<EX-101.PRE>
 15
 intu-20180731_pre.xml
 XBRL TAXONOMY EXTENSION PRESENTATION LINKBASE DOCUMENT

</EX-101.PRE>

